TH-OR01  Oral Abstract  Thursday
AKI Mechanisms: Cellular and Organ Cross-Talk
Heart-Specific LIM Protein (CSRP3) as a Novel Cardiorenal Connector 
in Acute Cardiorenal Syndrome-Related CKD ProgressionYoshio
 Funahashi,1 Michael  Hutchens.1,2 1Oregon Health & Science 
University, Portland, OR; 2Portland VA Medical Center, Portland, OR.
Background: Cardiorenal syndrome type 1 (CRS1) is acute kidney injury (AKI) 
caused by acute cardiovascular disease. Our translational CRS1 model, cardiac arrest and 
cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CA/CPR) causes AKI-CKD transition characterized by reduced GFR, increased fibrosis, renovascular hypertrophy, and elevated blood pressure-- CRS1-induced AKI-CKD (CRACKD). Heart specific LIM protein (CSRP3) is secreted into blood stream by acute cardiac injury, and taken up by renal proximal tubular cells via megalin mediated endocytosis. We hypothesized that cardiac CSRP3 mediates CRACKD.
Methods: We generated inducible cardiac CSRP3 KO mice (iCSRP3KO, csrp3 flfl/
myh6 cre-esr1). CA/CPR (8min cardiac arrest) or 8min ischemia reperfusion injury (IRI) was performed to C57BL6 mice, inducible proximal tubules megalin KO mice (iMegKO), or iCSRP3KO mice. IRI mice were injected 5ug CSRP3 or PBS. GFR, αSMA expression, 
and renovascular wall thickness were analyzed at 49 days. Research-designated human kidney proximal tubular epithelial cell (PTEC) was used in vitro.
Results: iCSRP3KO mice did not express CSRP3 in myocardium. SnRNA 
sequencing of CA/CPR kidney and bulk RNA sequencing of CSRP3 treated PTEC demonstrated similar alteration of fibrosis and myogenesis related genes. CSRP3-treated IRI mice (CSRP3-IRI) demonstrated reduced GFR (785.0±96.6 vs 933.3±148.6 (µg/min/100g), p<0.05), increased fibrosis (V
αSMA/Vkidney: 2.37±0.99 vs 1.43±0.40, p<0.05) 
and renovascular hypertrophy (thickness index: 0.61±0.03 vs 0.50±0.03, p<0.01) compared with PBS-treated IRI mice. These CSRP3 induced phenotypic changes were attenuated by pharmacological megalin inhibition in CSRP3-IRI mice or iMegKO-CA/CPR mice. Compared with littermate control, deletion of cardiac CSRP3 ameliorated CA/CPR induced GFR loss (845.4±75.6 vs 723.3±75.5, p<0.05) and BP elevation (122.8±13.3 vs 145.1±15.7 (mmHg), p<0.05). (Mean+/-SD, Student’s t-test)
Conclusions: Cardiac CSRP3 mediates renal fibrosis and myogenesis leading to 
CRACKD. We report a novel mechanism of CRS1 induced AKI-CKD transition.
Funding: Veterans Affairs Support
TH-OR02  Oral Abstract  Thursday
AKI Mechanisms: Cellular and Organ Cross-Talk
The Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor Is an Essential Mediator of 
Interstitial Fibrosis Development Following AKIShirong
 Cao,1 Yu Pan,1,2 Ming-Zhi  Zhang,1 Raymond  C. Harris.1 1Vanderbilt 
University Medical Center, Nashville, TN; 2Division of Nephrology, Shanghai 
Ninth People’ s Hospital, Shanghai Jiao Tong University School of Medicine, Shanghai, China.
Background: In the kidney, tubulointerstitial fibrosis can result from incomplete 
recovery from acute kidney injury (AKI), toxic injury or other inflammatory insults. 
Activation of the Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor (EGFR) has been implicated as a potential mediator of interstitial fibrosis but underlying mechanisms of EGFR’s actions have not been previously addressed.
Methods: To delete EGFR selectively in the fibroblast/pericyte population, we 
generated PDGFRβ-Cre/ERT2; mCherry (WT) and PDGFRβ-Cre/ERT2; mCherry; EGFR
f/f (FibEGFR-/-) mice. Models of acute kidney injury included ischemia/reperfusion, 
UUO and folate and adenine nephropathy. In vitro studies utilized immortalized mouse fibroblasts.
Results: In all models of acute injury, FibEGFR-/- mice developed less 
tubulointerstitial fibrosis and isolated fibroblasts had decreased collagen mRNA expression. Fibroblast EGFR expression played an essential role in fibroblast migration and proliferation after injury. In cultured mouse fibroblast cells, EGFR activation induced proliferation but decreased expression of SMAD3 and myofibroblast markers. TGF-ß did not induce proliferation but reversed EGFR’s inhibition and stimulated myofibroblast differentiation. SnRNAseq confirmed decreased markers of fibroblast proliferation and cell motility and numbers of myofibroblasts in FibEGFR-/- mice.Conclusions: These studies provided evidence for a heretofore undescribed and 
important role for EGFR in kidney fibroblasts and pericytes as a specific initiator of interstitial fibrosis in response to kidney injury by stimulating pericyte/fibroblast migration and proliferation.
Funding: NIDDK Support, Veterans Affairs Support
TH-OR03  Oral Abstract  Thursday
AKI Mechanisms: Cellular and Organ Cross-Talk
Prevention of Ischemia-Reperfusion Injury (IRI)-Induced AKI by 
Maintaining Na+/K+ ATPase ActivityNadezhda
 N. Zheleznova ,1 Tamara  A. W ahbeh,1 Lei Wang,1 Jie Zhang,2 
Jin W
ei,2 Nathan  Hall,1 Nohely  Hernandez Soto,1 Bo Chen,1 Wei Chen,1 
Ruisheng  Liu.1 1University of South Florida, Tampa, FL; 2Boston University, 
Boston, MA.
Background: IRI impairs Na/K ATPase pump function leading to cellular death. We 
developed a method using a 3rd Generation Synchronization Modulation Electric field 
(SMEF) to optimize Na/K ATPase activity during ischemia (Sci Trans Med. 2022). Now, advanced to a 4
th Generation SMEF, we have incorporated dual-energy transformation 
functions and power injections for ATP generation, hypothesizing that it will more efficiently combat ischemia-reperfusion-induced acute kidney injury (AKI).
Methods: Male and female C57BL/6J mice were divided into 3 groups: sham control, 
AKI without 4th-SMEF, and AKI with 4th-SMEF. A right nephrectomy was performed, followed by warm ischemia induction by clamping of the left renal pedicle (20 min in males vs. 25 min in females). In the 4th-SMEF group, an electric field was applied to the left kidney pre-clamping. Plasma creatinine (Day 1,3,7), Glomerular Filtration Rate (day 7),  
KIM-1, and Na/K pump activity and expression were evaluated. A histological kidney tissue examination was conducted.
Results: The 4th-SMEF reduced plasma creatinine by 92% in males (4th-
SMEF:0.21±0.10 mg/dL, untreated AKI:2.56±0.9 mg/dL) and 82% in females (4th-SMEF:0.34±0.3 mg/dL, untreated AKI 1.84±0.4 mg/dL), displaying similitude to sham groups. This outperforms the previous 3rd-SMEF approach, decreasing plasma creatinine by only 40% (Chen, 2022). GFR showed 60% improvement in males (4th-SMEF:255 
µl/
min, 
untreated AKI:110 µl/min) 
and 55% improvement in females (4th-SMEF: 220 µl/
min, 
untreated AKI:98 µl/min). 
KIM-1 marker in the AKI-treated group, the sham, and 
4th-SMEF-treated groups showed: (271±30 pg/ml, 60±9 pg/ml, and 66±21 pg/ml) respectively. Baseline Na/K expression is higher in females. AKI groups of both genders exhibited reduced activity, and expression, alongside cellular relocation. With 4th-SMEF, both genders reached equalized Na/K pump activity and degradation reduction. Histology conveyed diffuse renal tubular necrosis and casts comprising necrotic cells and debris in AKI groups. In contrast, the 4
th-SMEF treatment essentially normalized the 
histopathologic changes aiding strong similarity to the sham group.
Conclusions: 4th-SMEF prevented AKI by equally normalizing Na/K pump activity 
in both genders of mice, leading to similar prevention of IRI-induced AKI.
Funding: NIDDK Support
TH-OR04  Oral Abstract  Thursday
AKI Mechanisms: Cellular and Organ Cross-Talk
Analysis of the Immune Cell Landscape Identifies Immunosenescence 
as a Therapeutic Target in Rhabdomyolysis-Induced AKISnigdha
 N. Rao
,1 Jean Sébastien  Saulnier-Blache,1 Joost  Schanstra,1 
Julie Belliere.1,2 1INSERM U1297, Toulouse, France; 2Centre Hospitalier 
Universitaire de Toulouse, Toulouse, France.
Background: Rhabdomyolysis (RM) accounts for 10% of the acute kidney injury 
(AKI) cases. The role of macrophages in the development of RM-AKI lesions has been 
clearly established, but a high resolution understanding of the changes in the immune landscape could help to improve targeted strategies.
Methods: Single-cell RNA sequencing was used in the murine glycerol-induced  
RM-AKI model to dissect the transcriptomic characteristics of CD45+ live cells sorted from kidneys 2 days after injury. A combination of senolytics (dasatinib and quercetin) was administered to mice exposed or not to RM-AKI.
Results: Unsupervised clustering of nearly 17,000 single-cell transcriptomes 
identified 7 known immune cell clusters. Sub-clustering of the mononuclear phagocyte cells (MPC), including monocytes, macrophages and dendritic cells, revealed 9 distinct cell sub-populations differently modified with RM. One macrophage cluster was particularly interesting since it behaved as a critical node in a trajectory connecting one MCHIIhigh cluster only present in control to 2 MCHIIlow clusters only present  
RM-AKI. Because this crucial cluster expressed senescence hallmark genes, the effect of combined dasatinib and quercetin (DQ) senolytics treatment was evaluated. DQ treatment in RM-AKI improved kidney function and blocked the known phenotypic switch from F4/80highCD11blow to F4/80lowCD11bhigh MPC.
Conclusions: scRNASeq identified novel renal myeloid subtypes after RM-AKI and 
unmasked a transition macrophage population affected by cellular senescence processes. This work provides a proof-of-concept that immunosenescence occurs during AKI and that senolytics deserve attention as potential nephroprotective drugs.



AKI Mechanisms: Cellular and Organ Cross-Talk
Key: TH - Thursday; FR - Friday; SA - Saturday; OR - Oral; PO - Poster; PUB - Publication Only
Underline represents presenting author.
2
J Am Soc Nephrol 34: 2023Oral Abstract/Thursday
TH-OR05  Oral Abstract  Thursday
AKI Mechanisms: Cellular and Organ Cross-Talk
Novel Anti-Inflammatory Effects of IL-1 Receptor in Kidney Myeloid 
Cells Following AKIYanting
 
Chen,1 Xiaohan  Lu,2 Jiahui  Su,2 Steven  D. Crowley,2 Jamie  Privratsky.1,3 
1Center for Perioperative Organ Protection, Department of Anesthesiology, 
Duke University Medical Center, Durham, NC; 2Division of Nephrology, 
Department of Medicine, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, NC; 
3Division of Critical Care Medicine, Department of Anesthesiology, Duke 
University Medical Center, Durham, NC.
Background: Acute kidney injury (AKI) is a leading cause of organ failure in 
hospitalized and critically ill patients. Following AKI, the canonical pro-inflammatory 
cytokine interleukin-1 β (IL1β) is released predominantly from activated myeloid cells and 
binds to the interleukin-1 receptor R1 (IL1R1). IL1R1 activation is known to amplify the immune response and exacerbate AKI. However, the specific role of IL-1R1 on myeloid cells during AKI is poorly understood. Our objective was to study the function of myeloid cell IL-1R1 during AKI. As IL1R1 is known to signal through the pro-inflammatory Toll-like receptor (TLR)/MyD88 pathway, we initially hypothesized that myeloid cell IL1R1 activation would exacerbate AKI.
Methods: IL1R1 was selectively depleted in CD11c+ myeloid cells with 
CD11cCre(+) / Il1r1
fl/fl (IL1R1CD11cKO) mice. IL1R1CD11cKO and littermate controls 
(CD11cCre(-) / Il1r1fl/fl - IL1R1CD11cWT) were subjected to kidney ischemia/reperfusion 
(I/R) injury. Kidney injury was assessed by serum creatinine and histologic injury scoring. Renal tubular cells (RTC) were co-cultured with CD11c+ bone-marrow derived dendritic cells (BMDC) from IL1R1
CD11cKO and IL1R1CD11cWT mice.
Results: Surprisingly, compared to IL1R1CD11cWT mice, IL1R1CD11cKO mice displayed 
exaggerated I/R-induced kidney injury, as indicated by elevated levels of serum creatinine (mean ± SD: 1.24 ±0.85 vs 2.06 ± 1.17 mg/dl, p<0.05), BUN (mean ±  
SD: 90.91 ± 35.68 vs 134.87 ± 37.92 mg/dl, p<0.01), and histologic injury scoring. In 
support of these findings, in vitro co-culture studies showed that RTC co-cultured with 
IL1R1
CD11cKO BMDC (in the presence of IL1β or LPS) exhibited higher mRNA levels of 
the kidney injury marker neutrophil gelatinase-associated lipocalin (NGAL) than those  
co-cultured with IL1R1CD11cWT BMDC. Furthermore, we observed that IL1R1 activation 
on IL1R1CD11cWT BMDC preferentially augmented expression of anti-inflammatory 
mediators tumor necrosis factor alpha induced protein 3 (A20) and interleukin-1 receptor antagonist (IL1Ra/Il1rn), effects that were abrogated by IL1R1
CD11cKO BMDC.
Conclusions: Our findings suggest a novel function of IL1R1 is to serve as a critical 
negative feedback regulator of IL1 signaling in CD11c+ cells to dampen inflammation and limit AKI. Our results lend further support for cell-specific, as opposed to global, targeting of immunomodulatory agents.
Funding: NIDDK Support, Other NIH Support - NIGMS, Veterans Affairs Support
TH-OR06  Oral Abstract  Thursday
AKI Mechanisms: Cellular and Organ Cross-Talk
The Kidney-Gut-Brain Axis in AKI
Jihyun
 
Yang,1 Young Eun  Choi,2 Sungyeon  Kim,2 Suk Min  Chung,2 
Yookyung
 
Jang,2 Ko Y oon Sook,2 Lee Hee Young,2 Tai yeon  Koo,2 Sewon  Oh,2 
Myung-Gyu
 
Kim,2 Sang-Kyung  Jo.2 1Kangbuk Samsung Hospital, Jongno-gu, 
Seoul, Republic of Korea; 2Korea University, Seongbuk-gu, Republic of Korea.
Background: Although epidemiological studies suggest that long-term survivors of 
dialysis requiring AKI had increased risk of dementia, its underlying mechanisms remain 
uncertain. Based on recent data showing kidney-gut crosstalk mediated by immune modulation in AKI, we hypothesized that gut dysbiosis and aberrant gut immune response might contribute to the cognitive dysfunction following AKI.
Methods: In mouse long-term AKI survival model (1yr after kidney ischemia/
reperfusion injury (IRI)), we determined functional and structural alterations of brain, changes in gut microenvironment including dysbiosis and immune cell phenotypes. For better insight about the causal relationship in kidney-gut-brain axis, we also tested the effect of fecal microbiota transfer (FMT) and cohousing (transfer microbiota by coprophage) on kidney and brain in long-term AKI mouse model.Results: One year after kidney IRI, mice showed abnormal behaviors in open 
field test compared to age matched sham control. Transcriptosome of hippocampus demonstrated more than 120 differentially regulated genes including those involved in angiogenesis/immune and inflammatory response. We also found structural brain injury including disruption of BBB, neuroinflammation, oxidative stress as well as accumulation of amyloid-b fibrils and hyperphosphorylated tau proteins, suggesting the development of Alzheimer like dementia long after AKI. Gut microbiota structure 1yr after kidney IRI was also clearly distinguished from that of sham control and was associated with increased ratio of Th17/Tregs balance, showing the persistence of gut dysbiosis and aberrant gut mucosal immune response long after AKI. Both cohousing and FMT partially restored the gut mucosal inflammation and this also led to not only decreased kidney fibrosis but also improved cognitive function as well as neuroinflammation and tauopathy.
Conclusions: This is the first animal study that showed that AKI can lead to 
Alzheimer like neurodegeneration. Gut dysbiosis and aberrant mucosal immune response is thought to contribute to the development of tauopathy/neuroinflammation and congtivie dysfunction long after AKI. Our data provide new insights into “kidney-gut-brain” axis in the field of AKI and suggest that gut might be a new therapeutic target for the prevention of long-term adverse outcomes in AKI patients.
TH-OR07  Oral Abstract  Thursday
AKI Mechanisms: Cellular and Organ Cross-Talk
Spatial Multi-Omic Atlas of Pyelonephritis
Xin
 
Wang, Israel
 
Cotzomi Ortega, Yuriko
 
I.
 
Sanchez-Zamora, Rishil
 
H.
 
Patel, 
Macie
 
M.
 
Kercsmar, Ashley
 
R.
 
Jackson, John
 
D.
 
Spencer, Brian
 
Becknell, 
Juan de Dios
 
Ruiz-Rosado. Nationwide Children’ s Hospital, Columbus, OH.
Background: Pyelonephritis (PN) causes renal injury, inflammation, and scarring. 
Over 80% of PN episodes are due to uropathogenic Escherichia coli (UPEC). The 
molecular mechanisms of acute kidney injury and renal fibrosis in PN patients are poorly 
understood, hindering the development of effective therapies.
Methods: We infected female C3H/HeOuJ mice via transurethral inoculation with 
UPEC. Spatial transcriptomics (ST, Visium 10x genomics) and PIPseqTM single-cell RNA-
seq were performed on kidney samples at multiple time points (0, 1, 3, 5, 7, and 28 days post infection). The integrative analysis encompassed pathological evaluation, cell type annotation, spatial deconvolution, differential gene expression, cell-cell communication, pseudotime inference, and signaling pathway exploration, aiming to unravel the dynamic structural and molecular changes during PN.
Results: We characterized 20,831 spatial spots with deconvoluted cell-type 
compositions at six timepoints. We profiled 40,224 single cells representing 18 major cell types and identified infected proximal tubule cells with distinct cell-cycle and key signaling states. Integration of these multi-modal datasets revealed two distinct clustering structures of tissue abscesses that were specific to the infection and associated with fibrotic injury, repair, and remodeling. These abscess structures exhibited increased levels of colocalization between leukocytes, fibroblasts, and endothelial cells after infection, along with activations in leukocyte migration and proliferation, T cell activation, TNF-α  signaling, and cell-cell 
adhesion. Signaling analyses unveiled unique spatial dependencies in hypoxia, apoptosis, proinflammatory responses, profibrotic and proliferative processes. The marginal regions of the renal abscess displayed dramatically increased activation in NF-κ B, TNF-α , EGFR, 
and P53 signaling pathways, but decreased Stat1 and Wnt pathway activity.
Conclusions: Our study provides an integrative map of the spatial gene expression 
and gene-regulation networks involved in maintaining kidney homeostasis and immune responses during PN. We believe our findings will contribute to the advancement of mechanistic insights and potential therapeutic strategies to treat PN.
Funding: NIDDK Support
TH-OR08  Oral Abstract  Thursday
AKI Mechanisms: Cellular and Organ Cross-Talk
Differential Roles of Regnase3 in Resident Macrophages vs. Renal 
Tubular Epithelial Cells in Kidney InjuryChenyu
 
Li, Hans
 
J.
 Anders. 
Klinikum der Universitat Munchen Medizinische 
Klinik und Poliklinik IV - Standort Ziemssenstrasse, Munchen, Germany.
Background: RNA-binding proteins are a class of proteins that regulate RNA and 
have been implicated in a wide range of diseases. Regnase3 as one of those proteins has 
been shown to promote inflammation by increasing TNF in macrophages (Mϕ). However, the full extent of its functions in kidney disease remains unknown. We hypothesized that Regnase3 plays a role in both kidney resident Mϕ and renal tubular epithelial cells (RTEC), influencing inflammation and kidney repair after injury.
Methods: A series of genetically-modified mice were developed, including the 
Pax8rTtA, TetOCre, receptor activator of nuclear factor kappa-Β (Rank, a lineage tracer for kidney resident Mϕ)-Cre (RankCre), and Regnase3 floxed (Regnase3fl/fl) mice. Upon these mice, we applied a range of kidney injury models involving unilateral ischemia-reperfusion and nephrocalcinosis. Furthermore, scRNA-seq and RNA-seq were utilized to investigate the underlying mechanisms.
Results: The scRNA-seq showed both Regnase3 is highly expressed in the kidney 
Mϕ and positively correlated with the chemokines, Mϕ phagocytosis, and Mϕ maturation after kidney injury. In vivo, after the kidney injury, the RankCre-Regnase3fl/fl (Regnase3 conditional KO in kidney resident Mϕ) mice suffered from more inflammation, characterized by CCR2 positive pro-inflammatory Mϕ accumulation. In vitro, Regnase3 is involved in modulating resident Mϕ polarization towards the pro-inflammatory and migration, indicating that it contributes to Mϕ-related inflammation. Next, we aimed to examine the role of Regnase3 in RTEC. Through in silico, we found that Regnase3 is highly expressed in healthy RTEC but reduced following injury, and it controls early apoptosis. In vivo and in vitro experiments suggested that the Regnase3 deletion in RTEC (Pax8rTtA-TetOCre-Regnase3fl/fl) against kidney injury and promote the repair 



AKI Mechanisms: Cellular and Organ Cross-Talk
Key: TH - Thursday; FR - Friday; SA - Saturday; OR - Oral; PO - Poster; PUB - Publication Only
Underline represents presenting author.
3
J Am Soc Nephrol 34: 2023Oral Abstract/Thursday
of RTEC. Regnase3 targets pre-RNA and modulates alternative splicing by increasing 
skipped exon events and decreasing the probability of retained intron events.
Conclusions: Regnase3 contributes to kidney injury but the impact of it is contingent 
upon the specific cell lineage in question. The RankCre-Regnase3fl/fl leads to an exacerbation of kidney injury by increasing pro-inflammatory Mϕ recruitment, whereas the Pax8rTtA-TetOCre-Regnase3fl/fl leads to an improvement after injury through its effects on cell death and RTEC repair.
TH-OR09  Oral Abstract  Thursday
AKI Mechanisms: Cellular and Organ Cross-Talk
Role of YB-1 in the Early Pathogenesis of Acute Respiratory Distress 
Syndrome (ARDS) and Associated Renal DamageAnna
 
Leitz,1 Daniela  Hermert,1 Vera  Jankowski,3 Yingying  Gao,1 Xiyang  Liu,1 
Marcus
 
Schultz,2 Jürgen  Floege,1 Stefan  Uhlig,4 Tammo  Ostendorf,1 Lucy  K.  
Reiss,4 Ute Raffetseder.1 1Universitatsklinikum Aachen Klinik fur Nieren- und 
Hochdruckkrankheiten rheumatologische und immunologische Erkrankungen, Aachen, Germany; 
2Department of Intensive Care, Amsterdam University 
Medical Centres, Amsterdam, Netherlands; 3Universitatsklinikum Aachen 
Institut fur Molekulare Herz Kreislauf Forschung, Aachen, Germany; 
4Institute of Pharmacology and Toxicology, Medical Faculty, RWTH Aachen, 
Aachen, Germany.
Background: Acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) is a life-threatening 
lung impairment that is associated with a mortality of 25% up to 45%. It is caused 
by acute inflammation and currently patients with ARDS can only be stabilized by mechanical ventilation and intensive care. Acute kidney injury (AKI) is the most common extrapulmonary organ dysfunction associated with ARDS, affecting more than 35% of the patients. Proteins with alarmin function, such as the highly conserved Y-box binding protein (YB-1), are good candidates for early progression of ARDS and the crosstalk between lung and kidney. YB-1 functions as a translation or transcription factor and is also secreted during inflammation.
Methods: Mice were mechanically ventilated in a mouse intensive care unit 
(MICU). The role of YB-1 in murine ARDS and its effect on the kidneys was evaluated in a two-hit- (intratracheal (i.t.) application of hydrochloric acid & ventilation) and a triple-hit- (hydrochloric acid i.t., lipopolysaccharide (LPS))- i.t. & ventilation) model in heterozygous Yb1-deficient (Yb1
+/-)-mice and after i.t.-application of recombinant 
YB-1 protein. In addition, tracheal secretion, urine and serum from ARDS patients were analyzed for (post-translationally modified) extracellular YB-1 by mass spectrometry.
Results: In both models, Yb1
+/- mice were protected in terms of pulmonary 
inflammatory parameters. In the two-hit model, the improved lung function in the Yb1+/-  
mice deteriorated to wild-type (WT) level by additional i.t. application of recombinant YB-1. Interestingly, however, heterozygous YB-1 deficiency in the kidneys led to more intense inflammatory reactions. YB-1 i.t. (instillation in the absence of lung injury) already triggered nephritis. Extracellular YB-1 in murine and human ARDS was post-translational modified, and mass spectrometric analysis of ARDS patient samples showed a correlation of guanidinylated YB-1 levels in tracheal secretion/serum and disease severity.
Conclusions: Taken together, YB-1 expression in ARDS mouse models has opposite 
effects on the inflammatory process in the primarily damaged lung and the secondarily affected kidney. In addition, the intracellular or extracellular localization of YB-1 also determines its protective or destructive character.
Funding: Government Support - Non-U.S.
TH-OR10  Oral Abstract  Thursday
AKI Mechanisms: Cellular and Organ Cross-Talk
Injured Tubular Epithelia-Derived CCN1 Promotes the Mobilization of 
Fibroblasts Toward the Injury Sites at the Acute Phase After Kidney InjuryTomohiro
 
Nakata ,1 Yuhei  Kirita,2 Keiichi  T amagaki,2 Tetsuro  Kusaba.2 
1Department of Nephrology, Graduate School of Medical Science, Kyoto 
Prefectural University of Medicine, Kyoto, Japan; 2Kyoto Prefectural 
University of Medicine, Kyoto, Japan .
Background: Renal fibrosis is associated with the progression of renal injury. 
Conversely, the function of fibroblasts is indispensable for the reconstruction of normal 
tissue structure following injury in various organs. Consequently, the humoral factors that prompt fibroblasts to migrate to the injury site at an appropriate time point are deemed indispensable. However, the precise mechanisms through which these factors influence fibroblasts and promote migration to the tissue-injured site remain unclear .
Methods: To expound on the paracrine effects on fibroblasts (NRK49F), we 
subjected them to treatment with conditioned medium (CM) derived from either normal or injured tubular epithelial cells (NRK52E). Based on the transcriptomics data, we identified Cellular Communication Network Factor 1 (CCN1) signaling as a candidate and analyzed its impact on kidney injury.
Results: The CM from injured NRK52E expedited NRK49F chemotaxis and 
proliferation. Based on ligand-receptor analysis of RNA-seq between NRK49F and NRK52E in vitro, as well as proximal tubular-specific transcriptomics utilizing proximal tubular-specific tdTomato-reporter mice, we identified the upregulation of CCN1 signaling during the early phases of various kidney injury models. The enhanced fibroblast chemotaxis induced by CM from injured NRK52E was nullified by CM from injured NRK52E with CRISPR-mediated CCN1 knockout. CCN1 activated FAK-ERK signaling, thereby expediting the migration and proliferation of fibroblasts, which were attenuated by ERK and FAK inhibitors. Lastly, in vivo analyses utilizing proximal tubular-specific CCN1 knockout (SLC34a1GCE/CCN1-floxed) mice demonstrated the accumulation of fibroblasts surrounding injured tubular epithelial cells was scarcely observed during the acute phase following cisplatin-induced kidney injury in tubular CCN1 knockout mice. Furthermore, tubular injury was exacerbated in CCN1 knockout mice, suggesting that mobilized fibroblasts by tubule-derived CCN1 may impede the expansion of tubular injury.
Conclusions: During the acute phase after injury, the interaction between tubular 
epithelia and fibroblasts hinges upon the pivotal role played by damaged tubule-derived CCN1 in mobilizing fibroblasts toward the injury sites, thereby potentially inhibiting the progression of tubular injury expansion.
TH-OR11  Oral Abstract  Thursday
CKD Mechanisms: Prediction, Propagation, and Prevention
Unified Cross-Species Kidney Single-Cell Atlas: Unraveling Conserved 
Cellular Features and Species-Specific AdaptationsKonstantin
 A.
 Kloetzer ,1,2 Amin  Abedini,1 Michael  S. Balzer,1,3 Xiujie  Liang,1 
Jonathan
 
Levinsohn,1 Katalin  Susztak.1 1University of Pennsylvania, 
Philadelphia, P A; 2Medizinische Universitat Graz, Graz, Austria; 3Charite 
Universitatsmedizin Berlin, Berlin, Germany .
Background: The kidney plays a critical role in maintaining systemic homeostasis, 
yet our current understanding of species differences, health states, and changes in disease 
states remains limited. Owing to the kidney’s complex cellular architecture, single-cell tools can provide pivotal insight into these processes.
Methods: We processed seven large renal single-nucleus RNA sequencing (snRNA-
seq) and spatial transcriptomics datasets derived from healthy and disease-affected mouse, rat, and human samples. Following meticulous quality controls, we harmonized gene symbols and integrated data using deep generative modeling (scVI). A variety of computational tools were utilized to comprehend cell type conservations as well as species and disease state-specific changes.
Results: We present the first comprehensive, fully integrated interspecies renal 
snRNA-seq atlas, comprising more than 140 samples and over 1 million cells - the largest kidney cell atlas to date. Our atlas uncovers over 100 distinct cell states, providing a detailed understanding of conserved biological functions, marker genes, species-specific differences, and cellular adaptations in response to disease. Conserved cell types were anatomically positioned using spatial transcriptomics data. By employing the concept of Differentially Expressed Gene Ontology terms (DEGOs) – which focus on mean expression values for functional gene sets rather than individual genes – we highlighted the conserved renal physiology at the single-cell and spatial level. We observed notably fewer proximal tubule S3 segment cells in the human kidney compared to rodents. We identified a conserved injured proximal tubule subset with its unique markers. Additionally, we discovered novel cell types in the loop of Henle cluster expressing developmental process-related gene signatures.
Conclusions: This comprehensive kidney single-cell atlas serves as a valuable 
resource, offering a consistent reference across species with standardized cell terminology. It enables a deeper understanding of kidney biology and paves the way for developing novel therapeutic strategies.
Funding: NIDDK Support
TH-OR12  Oral Abstract  Thursday
CKD Mechanisms: Prediction, Propagation, and Prevention
Extracellular miRNAs as Predictors of CKD Progression
Anvesha
 
Srivastava,1 Richard  L. Amdur ,2 Ana Pabalan,1 Dominic  S. Raj.1 
1The George Washington University, Washington, DC; 2Northwell Health, 
New Hyde Park, NY.
Background: Kidney fibrosis is final common pathway downstream of most renal 
injuries that contributes to progressive chronic kidney disease (CKD). Noncoding RNAs 
regulate kidney fibrosis through direct repression and/or expression of matrix genes and TGF-β signaling. We hypothesized that specific circulating microRNAs (miRNAs) are indicators of underlying kidney fibrosis and can serve as early biomarkers for CKD progression.
Methods: The study was performed using patient samples/clinical data from the 
Chronic Renal Insufficiency Cohort (CRIC) cohort (n= 3,471). The slowest and fastest progressors of CKD were defined based on the largest and smallest negative slope of eGFR change over time, using within-subject ordinary least-squares regression of follow-up eGFR readings. Next Generation Sequencing (NGS) was performed to identify miRNAs associated with CKD progression. Circulating RNAs from plasma samples were isolated and sequencing was performed on NovaSeq platform (Illumina, Inc). The raw counts, mapping, and differential expression analysis was done using R Bioconductor packages. Total of 500 genes with highest variance were used for principal component analysis and 35 genes with highest variance across samples were selected for hierarchical clustering. The biological effects, mechanisms and functions of identified miRNAs were analyzed using Ingenuity Pathway analysis.
Results: Global extracellular miRNA expression analysis showed presence of 1,888 
miRNAs in plasma. Differential analysis using generalized linear models (GLMs) in edgeR was performed to identify the miRNA associated with rapid progression adjusting for sex, ethnicity, diabetes status, UAC Ratio and EGFR levels. Expression of 8 miRNAs (miR-887-5p, miR-1197, miR-6729-3p, miR-6774-3p, miR-6795-5p, miR-548f-3p, miR-3135a, miR-1469) varied significantly between fast and slow progressor groups. This differential expression of miRNAs between the two groups was significantly modulated by ethnicity and diabetic status of patient. Bioinformatic analysis showed pivotal role of these miRNAs in variety of important cell activities such as apoptosis, organ fibrosis, autophagy, metastasis etc.
Conclusions: This study identifies extracellular miRNAs that can serve as indicator 
of CKD progression. Identification of specific miRNA pathways for CKD progression will enhance diagnosis, enable risk stratification and lead to tar geted interventions.
Funding: NIDDK Support



CKD Mechanisms: Prediction, Propagation, and Prevention
Key: TH - Thursday; FR - Friday; SA - Saturday; OR - Oral; PO - Poster; PUB - Publication Only
Underline represents presenting author.
4
J Am Soc Nephrol 34: 2023Oral Abstract/Thursday
TH-OR13  Oral Abstract  Thursday
CKD Mechanisms: Prediction, Propagation, and Prevention
Alternative Splicing in CKD
Samer  Mohandes, Katalin  Susztak. 
University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, P A.
Background: Alternative splicing (AS) is a process that can lead to variable genotype 
expression. The primary forms are exon skipping, intron inclusion, alternative 5′ and 3′ 
splice sites. The role of alternative splicing of VEGF has been shown to play an important role in chronic kidney disease (CKD) development, however a comprehensive assessment of AS events in CKD has not been undertaken yet.
Methods: Human kidney tissue (n=410) was collected from nephrectomies of 
healthy subjects and patients with diabetic or hypertensive CKD. Clinical demographics information was collected via honest broker and histopathology was analyzed in an unbiased manner. RNA was extracted from the tubular compartment and sequenced. RNA-seq reads were aligned to the human genome using STAR v 2.7.3. Outliers identified by Mahalanobis distance. Aligned BAM files were sorted and indexed using Samtools v1.17 and junctions were extracted using Regtools v 1.0. Differential splicing for was analyzed separately using leafcutter v 0.2.7 and adjusted for age, sex, race and RNA quality indices (RNA integrity number, 5’-3’bias, %ribosomal genes, total reads).
Results: When comparing healthy samples to those with eGFR of less than 60 cc/
min/1.73m2 (CKD stage 3-5), we identified 31 intron cluster alternative splicing events at an adjusted p-value of 0.05. 26 of these were previously annotated. Pathway analysis using gene ontology (GO) terms showed enrichment for cell death and metabolic pathway. When comparing samples with less than 10% fibrosis to those with greater than 10% fibrosis, we identified 239 alternative differential splicing clusters. 233 of these were previously annotated. Pathway analysis using GO terms demonstrated these genes were enriched in the metabolic and immune pathways.
Conclusions: Large number of differential splicing events were observed in CKD 
compared to controls with enrichment in the metabolic and immune pathway genes.
TH-OR14  Oral Abstract  Thursday
CKD Mechanisms: Prediction, Propagation, and Prevention
Adenine Accumulation Induced by Hypoxia in Kidney Organoids
Akihiro  Minakawa,1 Pragya  Singh,2 Celine  C. Berthier,1 Matthew  Fischer,1 
Jamal  El Saghir
,1 Judy  J. Baek,1 Chenchen  He,1 Rajasree  Menon,1 
Subramaniam  Pennathur
,1 Kumar  Sharma,2 Matthias  Kretzler,1 Jennifer  L.  
Harder.1 1University of Michigan Division of Nephrology, Ann Arbor, MI; 
2The University of Texas Health Science Center at San Antonio Division of 
Nephrology, San Antonio, TX.
Background: Kidney disease progression is thought to result from a multitude of 
metabolic and genetic changes, including hypoxia and adenine. Adenine-rich diet has 
previously shown to be nephrotoxic in rodent models. Recently, a pathway contributing to endogenous adenine production was identified (manuscript in revision). We explored the association between adenine, kidney hypoxia and kidney injury using a human kidney organoid system with multi-omic analysis.
Methods: Kidney organoids generated from human pluripotent stem cells and 
exposed to 1% O
2 for 24 h were split into 2 treatment groups: group 1 organoids were 
treated with C13-glucose for the last 3 hours of hypoxic treatment underwent targeted metabolomic analysis (C13 flux study) by LC-MS; group 2 untreated organoids were harvested for IF, qRT-PCR and sc RNA-seq. Organoids of both groups were embedded, sectioned and evaluated by MALDI-mass spectrometry imaging (MSI) using DAN matrix and the METASPACE platform.
Results: IF imaging of hypoxic kidney organoids revealed nuclear accumulation 
of HIF1α; targeted transcriptional analysis showed that HIF1’s target gene expression, including glycolytic pathway genes, was increased. Single cell transcriptional profiling revealed increased expression of MTAP (methylthioadenosine phosphorylase) and reduced expression of APRT (adenine phosphoribosyltransferase) in proximal tubular cells and podocytes; mitochondrial gene expression was increased in kidney cell types of especially podocytes. Metabolomic analysis showed that the percentage of C13-labeled metabolites was increased in late glycolysis but decreased in TCA cycle. MALDI-MSI of hypoxic kidney organoids revealed an increased intensity of adenine metabolite and decreased intensity of TCA metabolites such as malic acid.
Conclusions: Our hypoxic kidney organoid model successfully recapitulates key 
transcriptional, protein and functional alterations associated with hypoxic conditions. Under these hypoxic conditions, MTAP pathway was perturbed leading to adenine accumulation in kidney organoid cells, suggesting a potential mechanism of endogenous adenine generation contributing to kidney disease.
Funding: NIDDK Support, Other NIH Support - NCATS, Commercial Support - Eli 
Lilly, Private Foundation SupportTH-OR15  Oral Abstract  Thursday
CKD Mechanisms: Prediction, Propagation, and Prevention
Induced Senescent Cells Recruit Leukocytes and Permit Their Own 
Clearance from Healthy Young KidneysMarie
 Docherty
,1 Maximilian  Reck,2 Ross  A. Campbell,1 David  P. Baird,1 
Laura  Denby
,2 Katie  J. Mylonas,1 David  A. Ferenbach.1 1The University of 
Edinburgh Centre for Inflammation Research, Edinburgh, United Kingdom; 
2The University of Edinburgh Centre for Cardiovascular Science, Edinburgh, 
United Kingdom.
Background: Increasing evidence links senescent epithelia to fibrosis and functional 
loss in experimental and human kidney disease. Whether senescent cells themselves 
are sufficient to initiate and sustain kidney fibrosis is unknown. We hypothesised that induction of epithelial senescence alone, in absence of other renal injuries, is sufficient to initiate and sustain fibrosis.
Methods: We generated a Pax8creERT2;mdm2 fl/fl mouse (‘TG’) via a cross of two 
established stains and treated these and wild type (WT) mice with tamoxifen by oral gavage to induce epithelial restricted senescence via mdm2 deletion. Markers of fibrosis (Collagen I) and growth arrest (p21cip1) were quantified by immunofluorescence (IF), and total collagen by picrosirius red. Full transcriptomic analysis was undertaken using scRNA-seq (10X).
Results: Tamoxifen resulted in p21cip1 induction in renal epithelia in TG but not 
in wild WT mice by IF (10.45 ± 2.9 vs 3.15 ± 0.7, p<0.05). On scRNA-seq, TG (but not 
WT) kidneys contained transcriptionally distinct, cdkn1a+ epithelia, recruited leukocytes and increased activated myofibroblasts. IF confirmed increased renal fibrosis at D7 in TG vs WT (Collagen1 1.1 ± 0.3 vs 3.1 ± 0.5, p<0.005). By D42, scRNAseq analysis 
demonstrated clearance of cdkn1a+ senescent epithelia, normalisation of leukocyte counts and resolution of myofibroblast activation in TG kidneys, with confirmation by IF; showing no difference in p21cip1 levels between WT and TG mice (2.4 ± 1.4 vs 4.1 ± 1.1, p=0.7) and no progressive fibrosis.
Conclusions: Our results demonstrate that epithelial senescence is profibrotic in 
absence of injury to other cell lineages. Of importance, mechanisms in the healthy adult kidney allow detection and physiologic clearance of senescence and prevent ongoing fibrosis. Understanding how these pathways are lost with age and chronic injury may lead to new routes to promote clearance of profibrotic senescent epithelia.
TH-OR16  Oral Abstract  Thursday
CKD Mechanisms: Prediction, Propagation, and Prevention
Identification of Noninvasive Biomarkers Reflecting Cellular Mechanisms 
of Endothelin A (ETA) Receptor Activity and Atrasentan Response in CKDN. Eric
 Olson
,1 Tobias  Bohnenpoll,2 Seamus  Ragan,1 I-Ju Lo,2 Shawn  S. Badal,1
Jennifer  H. Cox,1 Olivier  Radresa,2 Uwe  Andag,2 Andrew  J. King.1 1Chinook 
Therapeutics Inc, Seattle, WA; 2Evotec International GmbH, Gottingen, 
Germany.
Background: Endothelin pathway activation contributes to disease progression across 
multiple CKD etiologies. Atrasentan is a potent and selective endothelin A receptor (ETA) 
antagonist that has demonstrated rapid and sustained reductions in proteinuria, preservation 
of kidney function and improved kidney outcomes in diabetic kidney disease patients. Single cell transcriptomic characterization of a preclinical mouse model of IgA nephropathy revealed specific ET
A activity and atrasentan responses associated with proximal tubular 
failed repair (FR-PTs). We conducted an analysis of patient-matched kidney biopsies and biofluids from the NURTuRE cohort with the aim to identify non-invasive biomarkers associated with specific cellular responses that will enable precision treatment in CKD.
Methods: Serum (n= 99) and urine samples (n= 22) from the NURTuRE biobank 
were assayed using Olink and SomaScan proteomics platforms, respectively. Patient-matched kidney biopsies for each sample were analyzed by RNA-Seq and scored for a gene signature reflecting atrasentan responses in the gddY mouse model. Correlation analysis of biofluid protein abundance with kidney mRNA expression and atrasentan response scores suggested candidate non-invasive biomarkers for further validation (r ≥  0.4 and p ≤  0.05).
Results: Proteomic analysis identified 173 serum and 174 urine proteins 
significantly correlated with atrasentan response score in CKD patients. Strong positive correlation of 16/173 serum and 12/174 urine proteins with kidney mRNA expression suggests these proteins could originate from the kidney. Importantly, the majority of the respective genes were expressed by FR-PTs or immune cells, likely reflecting 



CKD Mechanisms: Prediction, Propagation, and Prevention
Key: TH - Thursday; FR - Friday; SA - Saturday; OR - Oral; PO - Poster; PUB - Publication Only
Underline represents presenting author.
5
J Am Soc Nephrol 34: 2023Oral Abstract/Thursday
mechanisms of ETA activation and atrasentan response in the kidney inflammatory and 
fibrotic microenvironment.
Conclusions: This study identified potential biomarkers reflecting cellular 
mechanisms of ETA activation and atrasentan response in the NURTuRE CKD cohort. 
These biomarkers may be useful in assessing and differentiating cellular responses in 
atrasentan-treated CKD patients. To validate these initial findings, serum and urine collected at baseline and following treatment in the AFFINITY IgAN cohort are currently being analyzed.
Funding: Commercial Support - Chinook Therapeutics, Evotec SE
TH-OR17  Oral Abstract  Thursday
CKD Mechanisms: Prediction, Propagation, and Prevention
LACTB Is a Kidney C Mitochondrial Metabolism
Shen
 
Li, Hailong
 
Hu, Katalin
 
Susztak. University of Pennsylvania, 
Philadelphia, P A.
Background: Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have identified hundreds 
of loci where genetic variants are associated with kidney function. However, the causal 
variants, genes, cell types, and disease mechanisms remain mostly unknown.
Methods: We integrated GWAS, human kidney expression of quantitative trait 
analysis using Bayesian colocations, transcriptome-wide association studies, and summary-based Mendelian randomization studies to identify likely causal genes for kidney function. We used single-cell RNA and ATACseq data to identify causal cell types. Finally, we generated mice with genetic deletion to study kidney disease mechanisms.
Results: We identified serine beta lactamase-like protein (LACTB) as a kidney 
disease risk gene. LACTB is expressed in kidney tubule cells. LACTB knockout mice were more susceptible to acute and chronic kidney injury induced by cisplatin and folic acid. LACTB knockout mice had lower cardiolipin levels and abnormal mitochondria morphology, causing elevated mitochondrial injury and activation of the cytosolic nucleotide sensing pathways (cGAS-STING) with an increment of inflammation. Cardiolipin is a crucial lipid for maintaining mitochondrial morphology and function. Additionally, we discovered that as a protease, LACTB cleaves PLA2G6, an enzyme involved in cardiolipin biosynthesis, generating a more active fragment that promotes cardiolipin production.
Conclusions: In summary, the integration of GWAS, epigenome analysis, mouse 
models, and cultured cell systems has identified LACTB as a causal gene for kidney disease. LACTB plays a crucial role in regulating cardiolipin metabolism, mitochondrial function, and inflammation.
Funding: NIDDK Support
TH-OR18  Oral Abstract  Thursday
CKD Mechanisms: Prediction, Propagation, and Prevention
Glutathione-Specific γ-Glutamylcyclotransferase 1 (CHAC1) Is a Kidney 
Disease Risk Gene by Controlling FerroptosisKolligundla
 
L.
 
Prasanna , Katalin
 
Susztak. University of Pennsylvania, 
Philadelphia, P A.
Background: Despite GWAS identified over 800 loci associated with kidney 
function, the specific genes, cell types, and mechanisms influenced by these genetic 
variants largely remain unexplored. In our research, we leveraged human kidney gene expression and methylation quantitative trait data, as well as human kidney single nuclear gene expression and open chromatin analysis, to prioritize CHAC1 on chromosome 15 as a likely causal gene. CHAC1 is essential for maintaining cellular glutathione levels but the role of CHAC1 remains unknown in kidney disease development.
Methods: Using CRISPR technology, we generated CHAC1 heterozygous mice 
(CHAC1+/-). To study the role of CHAC1 in kidney disease, we induce kidney disease by streptozotocin or folic acid injections or by feeding adenine diet. To uncover the mechanistic role of CHAC1, we used cultured tubule cells and performed biochemical assays.
Results: CHAC1 heterozygous mice (CHAC1+/-) showed no basal differences 
in kidney function, birth, and growth defects. On induction of kidney disease using streptozotocin or folic acid injection, the CHAC1+/- mice demonstrated improved kidney function (measured by BUN, creatinine, and cystatin C), diabetic kidney injury, and less fibrosis compared to WT counterparts. On chronic adenine feeding by ad libitum chow, the CHAC1+/- mice showed lower chronic kidney disease. The 
single nuclear ATAC-seq, RNA in situ hybridization, and immunostaining analyses indicated CHAC1 expression in the Loop of Henle (LOH). Cultured primary tubule cells from CHAC1+/- mice showed lower ferroptosis (an iron-dependent form of cell death), preserved cell viability, reduced lipid peroxidation and reactive oxygen species. Derepressed levels of ferroptosis inhibitor, Glutathione peroxidase 4 (GPX4) and the system xCT, and available glutathione levels in CHAC1+/- primary tubule cells likely mediating the resistance to ferroptosis in the conditions of cysteine methionine deprivation or transforming growth factor beta. The lower ferroptosis in CHAC1+/- mice is likely the mechanism for lower fibrosis and better kidney function in disease states (as CHAC1 degrades glutathione).
Conclusions: Our research identified CHAC1 as a novel kidney disease risk gene 
with a significant role in modulating ferroptosis and cellular glutathione levels in kidney tubule cells.
Funding: NIDDK SupportTH-OR19  Oral Abstract  Thursday
CKD Mechanisms: Prediction, Propagation, and Prevention
Calprotectin Is Associated with Vascular Calcification and Cardiovascular 
Complications During CKDJulie
 
Klein,1 Ana Amaya-Garrido,1 Manon  Brunet,1 Benedicte  Buffin-Meyer,1 
Arnaud
 
Del Bello,4 Serban  Ardeleanu,5 Jakob  V oelkl,6 Griet  L. Glorieux,7 
Karolina
 
Kublickiene,2 Peter  Stenvinkel,2 Stanislas  Faguer,4 Jose  M. V aldivielso,3 
Joost
 
Schanstra.1 1Inserm U1297, Toulouse, France; 2Karolinska Institutet, 
Stockholm, Sweden; 3Institut de Recerca Biomedica de Lleida Fundacio Dr 
Pifarre, Lleida, Spain; 4Centre Hospitalier Universitaire de Toulouse, Toulouse, 
France; 5Association pour l’Utilisation du Rein Artificiel a la Reunion, 
Saint-Gilles-les-Bains, Réunion; 6Johannes Kepler Universitat Linz, Linz, 
Austria; 7Universiteit Gent, Gent, Belgium.
Background: In patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD), vascular calcification 
is considered a major risk factor of cardiovascular (CV) mortality. The mechanisms of 
vascular calcification are complex and treatment options remain limited. Serum proteome analysis could help identify novel actors and potential therapeutic targets.
Methods: In this observational, European, multicenter study, we included 112 CKD3-
4 patients from Spain, 171 dialysis patients from Toulouse and La Reunion (France), and 170 CKD5 patients from Sweden. Serum proteome analysis was performed using LC-MS/MS on a subset of 66 CKD3-4 patients. Circulating calprotectin concentration was validated in the serum or plasma from the full cohorts by ELISA. Calprotectin was associated with CV outcome (2-4 years of follow-up) or with vascular calcification score assessed by V on Kossa staining on a piece of epigastric artery collected during renal transplantation surgery. The effect of calprotectin on calcification was measured in primary human vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs) and mouse aortic rings. The anticalcific potential of calprotectin inhibitor paquinimod was studied in a 5/6 subtotal nephrectomy mouse model.
Results: We identified using serum proteome analysis and further validation by 
ELISA that calprotectin, a circulating damage-associated molecular pattern protein, was associated with vascular calcification, CV outcome and mortality in CKD and dialysis patients. In primary human VSMCs and mouse aortic rings, calprotectin exacerbated calcification. Treatment with paquinimod inhibited the pro-calcifying effect of calprotectin. Paquinimod also ameliorated calcification induced by serum of uremic patients in primary human VSMCs. Finally, treatment with paquinimod blocked vascular calcification in mice with chronic renal failure induced by 5/6 subtotal nephrectomy .
Conclusions: We identified calprotectin as a key factor associated with vascular 
calcification, CV outcome and mortality in CKD patients. Blockade of calprotectin by paquinimod might be a promising strategy to reduce the burden of vascular calcification in CKD.
TH-OR20  Oral Abstract  Thursday
CKD Mechanisms: Prediction, Propagation, and Prevention
PCSK9 Targets Megalin in the Kidney Proximal Tubule and Aggravates 
Proteinuria in Nephrotic SyndromeSandra
 
Hummelgaard,1 Cecilie  K. Skeby,1 Camilla  Gustafsen,1 Federica  Petrillo,1  
Kathrine
 
P.
 
Frederiksen,1 Ditte  Olsen,1 Tilde  Kristensen,2 Per Ramlov  Ivarsen,2 
Peder
 
Madsen,1 Erik I. Christensen,1 Rikke  Nielsen,1 Henrik  Birn,2,1 Simon  Glerup,1 
Kathrin
 
Weyer.1 1Aarhus Universitet, Aarhus, Denmark; 2Aarhus Universitets-
hospital, Aarhus, Denmark.
Background: Proteinuria is a prominent feature of chronic kidney disease (CKD). 
Interventions that reduce proteinuria slow CKD progression and the associated risk 
of cardiovascular disease (CVD). We here propose a mechanistic coupling between proteinuria and the CVD-risk protein PCSK9 involving the receptor megalin.
Methods: Urinary PCSK9 excretion was determined in megalin knockout (KO) 
mice and patients carrying megalin pathogenic variants as well as minimal change disease patients at baseline and remission after standard prednisolone treatment (1 mg/kg/day). Mechanistical studies were performed in proximal tubular cell cultures (LLC-PK1 cells). PCSK9-mediated megalin regulation and proteinuria were investigated in PCSK9 KO mice, PCSK9 overexpressing mice as well as wildtype and nephrotic podocin KO mice treated with the PCSK9 inhibitor alirocumab (30 mg/kg/day and 50 mg/kg/day, respectively). Kidney injury was evaluated in podocin KO mice treated with alirocumab for 14 days.
Results: We find that PCSK9 undergoes glomerular filtration and is captured 
by megalin, the receptor responsible for driving protein reabsorption in the proximal tubule. Accordingly, megalin-deficient mice and patients carrying megalin pathogenic variants are characterized by elevated urinary PCSK9 excretion. Interestingly, PCSK9 knockout mice displayed increased renal megalin while PCSK9 overexpression resulted in its reduction. Furthermore, PCSK9 promoted trafficking of megalin to lysosomes in cultured proximal tubule cells, suggesting that PCSK9 is a negative regulator of megalin. This effect is potentially accelerated under disease conditions as genetic destruction of the glomerular filtration barrier in mice, and minimal change nephropathy in humans, resulted in markedly increased tubular PCSK9 uptake and urinary PCSK9 excretion. Pharmacological PCSK9 inhibition increased renal megalin, while reducing urinary albumin excretion and kidney injury markers in nephrotic mice.



Glomerular Diseases: Clinical and Translational Studies
Key: TH - Thursday; FR - Friday; SA - Saturday; OR - Oral; PO - Poster; PUB - Publication Only
Underline represents presenting author.
6
J Am Soc Nephrol 34: 2023Oral Abstract/Thursday
Conclusions: In conclusion, glomerular damage increases filtration of PCSK9 and 
concomitantly megalin degradation, resulting in escalated proteinuria. Targeting PCSK9 
may be beneficial to attenuate proteinuria-induced kidney injury in CKD.
Funding: Private Foundation Support
TH-OR21  Oral Abstract  Thursday
Glomerular Diseases: Clinical and Translational Studies
Prediction of Kidney Failure Using Multiple Data Domains in Glomerulo-
nephropathy: A CureGN StudyLaura
 H. Mariani ,2 Sarah  Mansfield,1 Abigail  R. Smith,1 Katherine  R. Tuttle.3 
CureGN Machine Learning Writing Group. 1Arbor Research Collaborative 
for Health, Ann Arbor, MI; 2University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI; 
3University of Washington, Seattle, WA.
Background: Clinical risk factors do not fully predict kidney failure in patients with 
glomerular diseases. Using data from multiple domains in CureGN we applied machine 
learning to improve risk prediction and identify novel predictors of kidney failure.
Methods: Sequential ridge regression models using demographics (I), social 
determinants of health (SDOH; II), clinical (III), and pathology features (IV) were fitted to predict time to kidney failure (estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) <15 mL/min/1.73m
2 or treatment by dialysis or transplant). Discrimination was assessed by 
integrated area under the curve (iAUC); variables were ranked by absolute value of standardized coefficients.
Results: The kidney failure rate was 2.9 per 100 person years in 2,544 CureGN 
participants. 36 predictors were included (7 base, 2 socioeconomic, 27 clinical). Discrimination was similar between models I and II (iAUC=0.89) and higher for model III (iAUC=0.91). eGFR, urine protein to creatinine ratio, age, Black race, and FSGS were highly ranked across models I-III; the ranking of Black race was lower in model III (Figure). Medicaid as primary insurance, hypertension, renin angiotensin system inhibitor use, and serum albumin and urea nitrogen levels were highly ranked in model III. In model IV (n=670), interstitial fibrosis/tubular atrophy (IFTA), presence of tubular microcysts, and sclerotic glomeruli ranked as top predictors, displacing Black race, andreducing ranking of age and FSGS.
Conclusions: Machine learning improves prediction of kidney failure through 
incorporation of novel data domains. In CureGN, addition of these data improved prediction for kidney failure across conventional diagnostic categories and detected novel predictors that displaced traditional risk factors.
Funding: NIDDK Support
Varible rankings from models I-IV .
TH-OR22  Oral Abstract  Thursday
Glomerular Diseases: Clinical and Translational Studies
Plasma Metabolic Profiles and Clinical Outcomes in Focal Segmental 
Sclerosis (FSGS) and Minimal Change Disease (MCD)Takaya
 Ozeki , Fadhl  Alakwaa, Anna  V . Mathew
, Matthias  Kretzler
, Laura  H.  
Mariani. University of Michigan, Ann 
Arbor, MI.
Background: Metabolomics is a powerful approach to investigate the relationship 
between disease mechanisms and patients’ phenotype. However, the association between 
plasma metabolic profiles and clinical outcomes of focal segmental glomerulosclerosis (FSGS) and minimal change disease (MCD) has not been studied well.
Methods: Plasma samples from 135 FSGS/MCD participants in the Nephrotic 
Syndrome Study Network (NEPTUNE) were studied. Samples were collected within 45 days from kidney biopsy. Untargeted metabolomics data were obtained using liquid chromatography mass spectrometry (LC-MS). We performed rigorous preprocessing to identify metabolites, remove outliers, and impute missing values. Outcomes with our interest were time to complete remission of proteinuria (UPCR<0.3) and, time to composite renal outcome (40% decline of eGFR or ESKD). Metabolites associated with clinical outcomes were selected by Cox-Elastic Net algorithm. Among the selected metabolites, a hypergeometric test was performed to identify the enriched metabolite categories.
Results: Among the 135 participants, 85 (63.0%) were male, 49 (36.3%) were 
pediatrics and 81 (60.0%) were FSGS. Median UPCR level was 1.65, and 42 (31.1%) demonstrated nephrotic range proteinuria (UPCR>3.5). Median eGFR levels was 84.2 



Glomerular Diseases: Clinical and Translational Studies
Key: TH - Thursday; FR - Friday; SA - Saturday; OR - Oral; PO - Poster; PUB - Publication Only
Underline represents presenting author.
7
J Am Soc Nephrol 34: 2023Oral Abstract/Thursday
at the time of sample collection. During the follow-up period (median: 51 months), 
47 attained complete remission and 33 reached to composite renal outcome. From the metabolomics data, 371 high-quality named metabolites were analyzed. Cox-Elastic Net models selected 21 and 47 endogenous metabolites that associated with time to complete remission and eGFR decline or ESKD, respectively. Among 87 metabolite categories, hypergeometric tests revealed that Fatty esters and were associated with complete remission while Bile acids were associated with eGFR decline or ESKD.
Conclusions: Specific combinations of plasma metabolites, particularly included as 
lipids and lipid derivatives, were associated with clinical outcomes in FSGS/MCD, which could help to understand disease mechanisms and can be potential biomarkers to improve treatment strategies.
Funding: NIDDK Support, Other NIH Support - NCATS
TH-OR23  Oral Abstract  Thursday
Glomerular Diseases: Clinical and Translational Studies
Idiopathic Collapsing Glomerulopathy Is Associated with APOL1 
High-Risk Genotypes or Mendelian Variants in Most Affected Individuals in a Highly Admixed PopulationPrecil
 
D.
 
Neves,1,2 Andreia  W atanabe,1 Elieser  H. W atanabe,1 Amanda  M.  
Narcizo,1 Kelly  Nunes,1 Frederico  M. Ferreira,1 Janewit  Wongboonsin,3 Livia  B.  
Cavalcante,1 Denise  M. Malheiros,1 Lectícia  Jorge,1 Matt  G. Sampson,3 Irene  L.  
Noronha,1 Luiz  F. Onuchic.1 1Universidade de Sao Paulo Faculdade de 
Medicina, Sao Paulo, Brazil; 2Hospital Alemao Oswaldo Cruz, Sao Paulo, 
Brazil; 3Boston Children’ s Hospital, Boston, MA .
Background: Collapsing glomerulopathy (CG) is most often associated with fast 
progression to chronic kidney disease requiring renal replacement therapy (CKD-RRT). 
Its incidence is apparently higher in Brazil than in other countries, however the reason for this occurrence is unknown.
Methods: We performed an integrated analysis of clinical, histological, therapeutic, 
causative genetic and genetic ancestry data in a highly genetically-admixed cohort with 70 idiopathic CG (ICG) patients, including children and adults. Genetic analyses included targeted-gene panel or whole exome sequencing and a high-density SNP array for ancestry assessment.
Results: The disease onset occurred at 23 (17-31) years and 51.4% of patients 
progressed to CKD-RRT 36 months after diagnosis. Causative genetic bases were identified in 58.6% of patients. Among these cases, 80.5% harbored APOL1 high-risk 
genotypes (HRG) and 19.5% causative Mendelian variants (MV). Self-reported non-White patients presented more frequently HRG. MV was an independent risk factor for progression to CKD-RRT at 36 months (HR: 2.583, 95%CI 1.151-7.076, p=0.024) and the end of follow-up (HR: 2.355, 95%CI 1.018-5.447, p=0.045). Older age at kidney biopsy and remission were independent protective factors against progression to CKD-RRT at 36 months (HR: 0.961, 95%CI 0.927-0.996, p=0.029; and HR: 0.230, 95%CI 0.085-0.623, p=0.004, respectively), and remission also at the end of follow-up (HR: 0.155, 95%CI 0.069-0.351, p<0.001). All HRG patients manifested CG at 9-44 years of age whereas in those with APOL1 low-risk genotype the disease arose throughout life. HRG associated with higher proportion of African genetic ancestry. Novel causative MVs were identified in COL4A5, COQ2, and PLCE1 and previously described causative MVs in MYH9, 
TRPC6, COQ2, COL4A3, and TTC21B. Three patients displayed HRG combined with 
a VUS (ITGB4, LAMA5 or PTPRO). MVs was associated with worse kidney prognosis.
Conclusions: Our data revealed that the genetic status plays a major role in ICG 
pathogenesis, accounting for more than half of cases in a highly-admixed Brazilian population.
TH-OR24  Oral Abstract  Thursday
Glomerular Diseases: Clinical and Translational Studies
Anti-Nephrin Antibody as a Potential Etiology in Primary Focal 
Segmental Sclerosis (FSGS)Claire
 A
villach ,1 Qiyu  Wang,2,3 Andrew  J.  W atts,2 Astrid  W eins.2 1Boston 
Medical Center, Boston, MA; 2Brigham and Women’ s Hospital, Boston, MA; 
3Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA .
Background: Minimal change disease (MCD) and primary FSGS have long been 
pondered to have shared pathogenesis representing a spectrum of different stages of 
podocyte injury and repair. Recent discovery of anti-nephrin antibodies (Ab) in MCD led us to hypothesize that anti-nephrin Ab may also be present in primary FSGS.
Methods: We retrospectively reviewed all native kidney biopsies performed 
at BWH from 1/2018-4/2022. We identified 52 cases of primary FSGS (diffuse podocytopathy+segmental sclerosis). We compared the pathological and clinical features between patients (pts) who have punctate IgG deposition on biopsies (+IgG) and those without (-IgG). Anti-nephrin Ab was tested in select pts with +IgG.
Results: Among the 52 cases, 14 had +IgG on IF (27%). There was no difference in 
the presence of collapsing lesion (36% vs. 45%, P=0.6), percentage of segmental sclerosis (7% vs. 8%, P=0.6) and IFTA (18% vs. 20%, P=0.7) between +IgG and -IgG groups. There was a trend towards enrichment of tip lesions in the +IgG group (21% vs. 11%, P=0.3). Among the 40 pts with available clinical data at biopsy, median proteinuria was significantly higher in the +IgG compared to -IgG group (13 vs 8 g/g, P=0.01). Five pts with +IgG had anti-nephrin Ab tested during active disease and all were positive (Table 1);  
all 5 biopsies showed colocalization of the punctate IgG with nephrin (Figure 1).
Conclusions: Punctate IgG deposition that colocalizes with nephrin is also observed 
in patients with primary FSGS and correlates with circulating anti-nephrin Ab. This suggests that anti-nephrin Ab-mediated podocyte dysfunction may be a shared disease mechanism between MCD and primary FSGS.
TH-OR25  Oral Abstract  Thursday
Glomerular Diseases: Clinical and Translational Studies
Exploring Epitope Spreading of PLA2R and Its Clinical Relevance in 
Idiopathic Membranous Nephropathy (IMN) Based on Yeast Surface Display SystemYanan
 
Liu,1 Peng  Chen,2 Junxian  Hong,2 Yan Qin.1 1Peking Union Medical 
College Hospital, Dongcheng-qu, China; 2Department of Basic Medical 
Sciences, School of Medicine, Tsinghua University, Beijing, China .
Background: PLA2R is the main target antigen of idiopathic membranous 
nephropathy (IMN). The PLA2R extracellular segment consists of Ricin, FNII and 8 
CTLDs. The major epitope is located in Ricin, and CTLD1, CTLD7 and CTLD8 have also been found as epitopes. The presence of epitope spreading and its clinical significance are controversial.
Methods: A random library of PLA2R was constructed by yeast surface display 
technique and screened by serum from 18 patients with PLA2R-associated IMN. Serum was prospectively collected from 389 patients. A batch flow analysis was carried out with the monoclonal yeast of each epitope. The clinical value of epitope was explored. The dynamic changes of epitope profiles during follow-up were observed.
Results: 1. The first PLA2R yeast surface display system was constructed. 2. In 
addition to Ricin, CTLD1, CTLD7, and CTLD8, 3 new epitopes (CTLD4, CTLD5, and CTLD6) were found (Figure 1). 3. The positive rates of CTLD1 and CTLD7 were about 50%. CTLD6, CTLD8 and CTLD4 were weak epitopes with a positive rate of less than 10%. 69 (17.7%) patients had epitope limited to Ricin. 4. 24hUP increased with the number of epitopes. The relationship between epitope spreading and 24hUP in subgroup divided by anti-PLA2R titer was consistent with the whole cohort. 5. By multivariate COX regression, gender, age, baseline 24hUP, anti-PLA2R titer were adjusted. Patients with epitope number ≥4 had lower response rates than patients with only 1 epitope (HR 
0.571, 95%CI 0.363-0.899, p=0.015). 6. Reversal of epitope spreading was observed in responders. Further epitope spreading was observed in non-responders.
Conclusions: We identified 3 new epitopes through PLA2R yeast surface display 
system. Epitope spreading in PLA2R was confirmed. The epitope number was correlated with 24hUP. Baseline epitope spreading had a prognostic value for remission independent of anti-PLA2R Ab titer and 24hUP. Clinical remission was accompanied with epitope reversal.
Funding: Clinical Revenue Support, Government Support - Non-U.S.




Glomerular Diseases: Clinical and Translational Studies
Key: TH - Thursday; FR - Friday; SA - Saturday; OR - Oral; PO - Poster; PUB - Publication Only
Underline represents presenting author.
8
J Am Soc Nephrol 34: 2023Oral Abstract/Thursday
TH-OR26  Oral Abstract  Thursday
Glomerular Diseases: Clinical and Translational Studies
eGFR Decline in Patients with IgA Nephropathy Treated with Nefecon or 
Placebo: Results from the 2-Year NefIgArd Phase 3 TrialRichard
 A.
 
Lafayette ,1 Jens  Kristensen,2 Andrew  M. Stone,3 Jürgen  Floege,4 
Vladimir
 T
esar,5 Hernan  Trimarchi,6 Hong  Zhang,7 Necmi  Eren,8 
Alexander
 
Paliege,9 Heather  N. Reich,10 Brad  H. Rovin,11 Jonathan  Barratt.12 
1Division of Nephrology, Department of Medicine, Stanford University, 
Stanford, CA; 2Calliditas Therapeutics AB, Stockholm, Sweden; 3Stone 
Biostatistics Ltd., Crewe, United Kingdom; 4Department of Nephrology and 
Clinical Immunology, Rheinisch Westfälische Technische Hochschule Aachen University Hospital, Aachen, Germany; 
5Department of Nephrology, First 
Faculty of Medicine and General University Hospital, Charles University, Prague, Czechia; 
6Nephrology Service, Hospital Británico de Buenos Aires, 
Buenos Aires, Argentina ; 7Renal Division, Peking University First Hospital, 
Peking University Institute of Nephrology, Beijing, China; 8Department of 
Nephrology, Kocaeli University, Kocaeli, Turkey; 9Division of Nephrology, 
Department of Internal Medicine III, University Hospital Carl Gustav Carus, Technische Universität Dresden, Dresden, Germany; 
10Division of Nephrology,  
University Health Network, Department of Medicine, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada; 
11Division of Nephrology, The Ohio State University 
Wexner Medical Center, Columbus, OH; 12College of Medicine Biological 
Sciences and Psychology, University of Leicester, Leicester, United Kingdom.
Background: The novel targeted-release budesonide formulation Nefecon is 
designed to treat immunoglobulin A (IgA) nephropathy (IgAN) by downregulating IgA1 
antibody production in the distal ileum. 9-month data from the first 199 patients (pts) in the Phase 3 NefIgArd trial demonstrated significant urine protein–creatinine ratio (UPCR) reduction and estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) preservation with Nefecon vs placebo in pts with IgAN, as reported previously (Barratt J et al. Kidney Int 2023;103:391–402). Here, we present data for the complete study population from the full 2-year trial (9 months of treatment and 15 months of follow-up) comparing eGFR decline (measured as a confirmed 30% reduction in eGFR from baseline) in pts treated with Nefecon 16 mg/day vs placebo.
Methods: Pts (≥18 years) with primary IgAN, eGFR 35–90 mL/min/1.73 m
2, 
proteinuria ≥1 g/24 h despite renin–angiotensin system blockade, and blood pressure 
<140/90 mmHg, were eligible. A 30% reduction from baseline in eGFR (Chronic Kidney Disease Epidemiology Collaboration formula) was confirmed by 2 values.
Results: 364 pts were included in the full analysis set. The proportion of pts with a 
confirmed 30% eGFR reduction was lower in the Nefecon vs placebo arm (Figure). The time to a confirmed 30% reduction was significantly delayed with Nefecon vs placebo (hazard ratio [HR] 0.45 [95% confidence interval 0.26–0.75]; p=0.0014 [1-sided]). A pre-defined supplementary analysis with rescue medication use included as an event yielded a similar result (HR 0.51). Baseline UPCR (<1.5 and ≥1.5 g/g) did not affect outcome (HR 
0.51 and 0.42, respectively).
Conclusions: The significantly longer time to a confirmed 30% reduction in eGFR 
with Nefecon vs placebo strongly indicates preserved kidney function and supports the role of Nefecon as a disease-modifying therapy.
Funding: Commercial Support - Calliditas Therapeutics
TH-OR27  Oral Abstract  Thursday
Glomerular Diseases: Clinical and Translational Studies
Safety and Efficacy of Felzartamab in Primary Membranous Nephropathy 
(PMN): Final Analysis of the M-PLACE StudyBrad
 
H.
 
Rovin,1 Pierre  M. Ronco,2 Jack  F. W etzels,3 Sharon  G. Adler ,4 
Isabelle
 
Ayoub,1 Seung Hyeok  Han,5 Jaideep  Dudani,6 Houston  N. Gilbert,6 
Uptal
 
D.
 
Patel,6 Julia  Jauch-Lembach,7 Nicola  Faulhaber,7 Rainer  Boxhammer,7 
Stefan
 
Haertle,7 Ben Sprangers.8 1The Ohio State University Wexner Medical 
Center, Columbus, OH; 2Sorbonne Universite, Paris, France; 3Radboud 
Universiteit, Nijmegen, Netherlands; 4Harbor-UCLA Medical Center, Los 
Angeles, CA; 5Yonsei University, Seoul, Seoul, Republic of Korea; 6Human 
Immunology Biosciences Inc, South San Francisco, CA; 7MorphoSys AG, 
Planegg, Germany; 8Katholieke Universiteit Leuven Universitaire 
Ziekenhuizen Leuven Campus Gasthuisberg, Leuven, Belgium.
Background: PMN, a common cause of nephrotic syndrome with serious sequelae, 
is characterized by deposition of pathogenic autoantibodies forming immune complexes 
between podocytes and the basement membrane. Felzartamab (Felza), a fully human IgG1 anti-CD38 mAb, binds to CD38 antigen and depletes plasmablasts and plasma cells, the source of pathogenic aPLA2Rab.
Methods: M-PLACE (NCT04145440), a P1b/2a multi-national study, assessed safety 
and efficacy of felza in 2 adult cohorts with aPLA2R+ PMN requiring immunosuppressive therapy (IST). Cohort 1 (C1) enrolled newly diagnosed or relapsed patients and Cohort 2 (C2) enrolled IST-refractory patients. Nine infusions (16 mg/kg) were given over  
5 months with a total observation period of 12 months.
Results: Among 31 patients (C1, n=18; C2, n=13) baseline characteristics include 
(Mean (SD)): Age 57.5 (11.8) yrs, serum aPLA2R titer 247.1 (259.3) U/mL, UPCR 6.4 (2.2) g/g, and serum albumin 26.8 (4.96) g/L. Most frequently reported TEAEs were infusion reactions in 9 patients (29.0%); 5 patients (16.1%) had serious TEAEs. Twenty-three patients (74%) achieved immunological response of > 50% aPLA2R reduction, with 8 (26%) achieving complete immunological response (aPLA2R changes shown in Fig. 1). Of the patients who received >5 Felza doses and no other IST, 7/15 (47%) patients in C1 and 2/11 (18%) patients in C2 achieved partial remission (UPCR reduction > 50%, UPCR < 3.0 g/g, and stable GFR) within the 12 month period. Consistent with the short period of follow-up, no patients achieved CR. Serum albumin increased in 11/15 (73%) patients in C1 and 7/10 (70%) patients in C2.
Conclusions: In high-risk patients with high unmet need (previously relapsing or 
refractory to IST, among the highest aPLA2R titer in a therapeutic clinical study to date), felza resulted in rapid, deep, and durable aPLA2R responses with associated improvements in proteinuria and serum albumin. Depleting CD20− /CD38+ plasma cells is a promising 
therapeutic strategy for treatment of PMN, including patients with high aPLA2R titers.
Funding: Commercial Support - Human Immunology Biosciences Inc, MorphoSys AG
TH-OR28  Oral Abstract  Thursday
Glomerular Diseases: Clinical and Translational Studies
Remission, Glucocorticoid Toxicity, Health-Related Quality of Life, and 
Safety Outcomes in Patients with Renal Involvement in the ADVOCATE TrialDuvuru
 
Geetha,1 Frank  B. Cortazar,2 Annette  Bruchfeld,3,4 Alexandre  Karras,5 
Peter
 A.
 Merkel,6 David  R. Jayne.7 ADVOCATE Study Group. 1Johns 
Hopkins University, Baltimore, MD; 2St Peter’ s Hospital, Albany, NY; 
3Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden; 4Linkopings universitet, 
Linkoping, Sweden; 5Universite Paris Cite, Paris, France; 6University of 
Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, P A; 7University of Cambridge, Cambridge, 
United Kingdom.
Background: In the Phase 3 ADVOCATE trial comparing avacopan to a prednisone 
taper, 81% of patients with ANCA-associated vasculitis (AA V) had renal involvement 
based on the Birmingham Vasculitis Activity Score. This renal subgroup had a baseline mean estimated glomerular filtration rate of 45.1 mL/min/1.73 m
2.
Methods: This post hoc analysis evaluated remission, glucocorticoid (GC) use, 
GC toxicity index (GTI), health-related quality of life (HRQoL by SF-36), and safety in patients with baseline renal involvement for those treated with avacopan (N=134) versus a prednisone taper (N=134).
Results: Compared to the overall study population, for this subgroup the mean 
age was similar (62 vs 61 years), but there was a slightly higher proportion of patients with newly diagnosed AA V (74% vs 69%), myeloperoxidase+ ANCA (63% vs 57%), microscopic polyangiitis (52% vs 45%), and use of cyclophosphamide (39% vs 35%). The avacopan group achieved a higher sustained remission rate at week 52 (67.9% vs 56.7%) while receiving a (mean/median) 2.4-/5.3-fold less total GC dose than the prednisone taper group (Table 1). The GTI cumulative worsening and aggregate improvement scores were lower at weeks 13 and 26 in the avacopan group compared to the prednisone group. At weeks 26 and 52 the avacopan group reported a greater improvement in  
SF-36 physical and mental component summary scores. Serious adverse events occurred in 46% (2 deaths) and 49% (3 deaths) of patients in the avacopan and prednisone groups, respectively.



Glomerular Diseases: Clinical and Translational Studies
Key: TH - Thursday; FR - Friday; SA - Saturday; OR - Oral; PO - Poster; PUB - Publication Only
Underline represents presenting author.
9
J Am Soc Nephrol 34: 2023Oral Abstract/Thursday
Conclusions: In the ADVOCATE trial, patients with AA V with baseline renal 
involvement treated with avacopan achieved higher sustained remission rates while 
receiving less GCs, experiencing less GC-related toxicity, and reporting greater improvements in HRQoL versus those treated with a prednisone taper.
Funding: Commercial Support - Amgen
TH-OR29  Oral Abstract  Thursday
Glomerular Diseases: Clinical and Translational Studies
Repeat Kidney Biopsies from the AURORA 2 Study of Voclosporin in 
Active Lupus NephritisSamir
 V
.
 Parikh
,1 Clint  Abner ,2 Ernie  Yap,2 Krista  Piper,2 Robert  B. Huizinga,3 
Henry
 
Leher.2 1The Ohio State University Wexner Medical Center, Columbus, 
OH; 2Aurinia Pharmaceuticals Inc, Edmonton, AB, Canada; 3Reformation 
Consulting Services, North Saanich, BC, Canada .
Background: V oclosporin is approved for the treatment of adults with active lupus 
nephritis (LN). Addition of voclosporin to MMF and low-dose glucocorticoids in the 
Phase 3 global AURORA studies led to significantly earlier and greater reductions in proteinuria while maintaining stable renal function. To characterize the long-term renal impact of voclosporin at the histologic level, we analyzed repeat kidney biopsies from a subset of patients in these studies.
Methods: Patients in AURORA 1 had biopsy-proven LN, UPCR ≥1.5 g/g (≥2 g/g for 
Class V), and eGFR >45 mL/min/m
2. Patients were randomized to voclosporin or control 
for 1 year in AURORA 1 and continued the same blinded therapy for 2 additional years in AURORA 2; all patients received MMF and low-dose glucocorticoids. A subset of patients had a kidney biopsy prior to screening and a repeat biopsy after approximately 18 months of therapy. Histopathologic grading according to NIH indices for LN activity and chronicity was conducted by Arkana Laboratories. Efficacy outcomes and mean eGFR over time were assessed.
Results: Repeat biopsy samples were collected from 16 patients in the voclosporin 
arm and 10 patients in the control arm. Baseline mean activity scores were similar between arms, with scores improving with treatment in both arms. Mean chronicity scores were also similar between arms at baseline and remained stable over time in most patients. Measures of renal function remained stable in both arms over the 3-year follow-up. V oclosporin-treated patients had numerically greater mean reductions from baseline in UPCR year-on-year compared to patients in the control arm.
Conclusions: As expected, mean activity scores improved in both treatment arms. 
Importantly, exposure to voclosporin was not associated with chronic injury, with the mean index remaining stable at follow-up. Similar to the overall population, patients treated with voclosporin saw greater reductions in UPCR over 3 years of treatment; safety outcomes from this small subgroup were also consistent with outcomes in AURORA 1.
Funding: Commercial Support - Aurinia Pharmaceuticals Inc.
TH-OR30  Oral Abstract  Thursday
Glomerular Diseases: Clinical and Translational Studies
Kidney-Related Outcomes in Patients with Active Lupus Nephritis 
Treated with Obinutuzumab: A Post Hoc Analysis of the Phase 2 NOBILITY TrialBrad
 
H.
 
Rovin,1 Jorge  Alfonso Ross Terres,2 Sophia  Giang,2 Thomas  Schindler ,3 
Armando
 
Turchetta,3 Jay P. Garg,2 Richard  Furie,4 William  F. Pendergraft,2 
Ana
 
Malvar.5 1Department of Internal Medicine, The Ohio State University 
College of Medicine, Columbus, OH; 2Genentech Inc, South San Francisco, 
CA; 3F . Hoffman-La Roche Ltd, Basel, Switzerland; 4Northwell Health, Great 
Neck, NY; 5Nephrology Unit, Hospital Fernandez, Buenos Aires, Argentina.
Background: Preservation of long-term kidney function is a major therapeutic goal 
in lupus nephritis (LN). In the randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, Phase  
2 NOBILITY trial (NCT02550652; PMID: 34615636), patients with proliferative LN 
receiving obinutuzumab with standard-of-care therapy showed clinically meaningful improvement in complete and overall renal responses at Weeks 52, 76 and 104 compared with those receiving placebo and standard-of-care therapy. We conducted a post hoc analysis of NOBILITY to assess kidney-related outcomes.
Methods: Cox regression analysis was conducted for the time to first kidney-related 
event (death, doubling of serum creatinine or treatment failure), LN flare and first 30% and 40% eGFR decline from baseline. The eGFR slope was assessed in a linear mixed-effects model.
Results: Obinutuzumab significantly reduced the risk of kidney-related events 
or death (HR, 0.40; 95% CI, 0.20 to 0.80), LN flare (HR, 0.43; 95% CI, 0.20 to 0.95) and first eGFR decline of 30% (HR, 0.20; 95% CI, 0.06 to 0.61) and 40% (HR, 0.09; 95% CI, 0.01 to 0.73) (Figure). Risk of sustained eGFR decline of 30% and 40% was numerically lower, and a significant difference in attenuation of eGFR slope decline was observed between patients receiving obinutuzumab and standard-of-care therapy and those receiving placebo and standard-of-care therapy (annual slope difference, 4.10 mL/min/year; 95% CI, 0.14 to 8.08).
Conclusions: Obinutuzumab, in addition to increasing the possibility of achieving 
a complete renal response, significantly reduced the risk of kidney-related events, eGFR decline, time to LN flare and eGFR slope decline in a post hoc analysis, suggesting that obinutuzumab in combination with standard-of-care therapy may positively impact kidney-related outcomes. Obinutuzumab is being evaluated in patients with active proliferative LN in the global registrational Phase 3 REGENCY trial (NCT04221477).
Funding: Commercial Support - This study was funded by Genentech, Inc., a 
member of the Roche Group. Editorial assistance was provided by Health Interactions, Inc., and funded by F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd.
TH-OR31  Oral Abstract  Thursday
Research Advances in Bone and Mineral Metabolism
PI3K/AKT/mTOR Pathway Regulates Renal Expression of Klotho
Aurora
 
Perez-Gomez , Juan
 
M.
 
Diaz Tocados, Juan Diego
 
Domínguez Coral, 
Alicia
 
G.
 
Carrasco, Jose
 
M.
 V
aldivielso. Institut de Recerca Biomedica de 
Lleida Fundacio Dr Pifarre, Lleida, Spain.
Background: Renal Klotho expression decreases early in chronic kidney disease 
(CKD), increasing circulating FGF23 and phosphate levels. This negatively affects 
renal disease progression and cardiovascular complications. Preserving renal Klotho expression is of interest, but the underlying mechanisms are unclear. During early stages of CKD, kidneys activate mechanisms of hypertrophy, in which the PI3K/Akt/mTOR pathway plays a role. This pathway is activated by growth factors such as insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1). The main negative regulator of this pathway is PTEN, which reduces the activation of canonical insulin signaling. We aimed to investigate the role of PTEN and the PI3K/AKT/mTOR pathway in kidney Klotho levels and their possible implication in CKD.
Methods: We measured renal Klotho levels, circulating FGF23, and phosphate 
in mice lacking PTEN in renal proximal tubular cells (PTEC) and in HK2 cells in vitro. We also examined normal mice with models of decreased renal mass caused by uninephrectomy (UNX) and 5/6 nephrectomy (SNX). Additionally, we tested the effect of mTOR inhibition. Furthermore, we analyzed PTEN and Klotho expression in kidney samples from CKD patients.
Results: We found that PTEC with downregulated PTEN exhibited decreased Klotho 
expression both in vitro and in vivo, accompanied by increased mTOR activity. Animals with PTEN elimination in PTEC also showed increased circulating phosphate and FGF23 



Research Advances in Bone and Mineral Metabolism
Key: TH - Thursday; FR - Friday; SA - Saturday; OR - Oral; PO - Poster; PUB - Publication Only
Underline represents presenting author.
10
J Am Soc Nephrol 34: 2023Oral Abstract/Thursday
levels, as well as a decrease in the fractional excretion of phosphate. These alterations 
were normalized by treatment with rapamycin. Normal mice with UNX or SNX exhibited increased renal IGF-1 expression and activation of the PI3K/AKT/mTOR pathway. Furthermore, these mice showed a reduction in renal Klotho expression and an increase in circulating FGF23 and phosphate. Both of these alterations were restored with rapamycin administration. In renal samples from CKD patients, we observed a positive correlation between the expression of PTEN, KLOTHO, and glomerular filtration rate (GFR).
Conclusions: The overactivation of the PI3K/AKT/mTOR pathway in PTEC 
modulates Klotho levels in the kidney. Our findings represent a significant advancement in the search for new therapeutic targets to maintain and prevent reductions in renal Klotho levels, potentially benefiting kidney disease patients.
Funding: Government Support - Non-U.S.
TH-OR32  Oral Abstract  Thursday
Research Advances in Bone and Mineral Metabolism
Spatial Genomics Localized Nephron Segment-Specific FGF23 and CKD 
Klotho-Dependent and -Independent Transcriptional ReprogrammingLainey
 
M.
 
Hibbard, Sheng
 
Liu, Rafiou
 Agoro, 
Yamil
 
Marambio, Kayleigh
 
N.
  
Jennings, Steven
 
S.
 W
elc, Jun
 W
an, Kenneth
 
E.
 White. Indiana University 
School of Medicine, Indianapolis, IN .
Background: FGF23 acts in the kidney via Klotho (KL) to control phosphate 
metabolism. However, in CKD, KL is lost and FGF23 is pathologically increased, 
disrupting mineral homeostasis. KL is expressed in multiple nephron segments, thus localization of FGF23 actions in the nephron remain unclear. Herein, we tested for novel FGF23 bioactivity localized with KL, as well as hypothesized that CKD alters FGF23/KL signaling and causes spatially unique transcriptional reprogramming.
Methods: Visium spatial transcriptomics (ST) was performed on kidney sections 
from normal mice injected with FGF23 (250 ng/kg) for 1 or 4 h, and male mice with adenine diet induced CKD (0.2% for 4 weeks).
Results: The FGF23-injected and CKD kidney sections had >6900 genes/sequencing 
spot and formed 12 and 10 UMAP cell clusters, respectively. Mapping nephron segment markers showed clear demarcation of cortical and medullary gene expression. PT S1/S2 marker Slc5a2 was highly expressed in the cortex and S3 marker Eci3 localized to the outer stripe of the medulla (OSOM). FGF23 increased MAPK-dependent transcription factor Egr1 more at 1 h than 4 h. The vitamin D metabolic enzymes Cyp24a1 and Cyp27b1 mRNAs were increased or decreased, respectively, at 4 h and overlapped with KL. ST data was validated by qPCR and independent scRNAseq data from FGF23-injected mice. We also identified novel changes in response to FGF23, including increased cortical Cyp4b1 at 4 h, which CKD decreased. Mice with CKD had reduced KL mRNA and increased Cyp27b1. Consistent with CKD fibrosis, Col1a1, -1a2, -3a1, and -4a1 were ubiquitously increased, although Col3a1 was more focused to the inner stripe of the medulla (ISOM). Further, pro-fibrotic Tgfb1 broadly increased, whereas its target Mmp7 increased in the ISOM. In contrast, damage and injury markers C3 and Havcr1 were restricted to the cortex and OSOM, respectively. Finally, evidence of wider immune infiltration was present in CKD with elevated neutrophil marker Lcn2, and macrophage markers Cd68 and Ptprc.
Conclusions: Using ST, we identified unbiased, spatially identifiable effects of 
FGF23 bioactivity in kidney, including new potential FGF23 targets. We also localized pathologic KL-dependent and -independent CKD gene alterations that differentially occur in distinct cell populations.
Funding: NIDDK Support, Other NIH Support - R01-HL145528
TH-OR33  Oral Abstract  Thursday
Research Advances in Bone and Mineral Metabolism
Role of miR-122 on FGF23 Cleavage
Jane
 J.
 
Thomas, John
 
C.
 V
on Drasek, Guillaume
 
Courbon, Jadeah
 
J.
 
Spindler, 
Aline
 
Martin, Valentin
 
David. Northwestern University Feinberg School of 
Medicine, Chicago, IL .
Background: In chronic kidney disease (CKD), iron deficiency and inflammation 
contribute to elevated levels of intact fibroblast growth factor 23 (iFGF23) by increasing 
FGF23 production. Proteolytic cleavage of intact fibroblast growth factor 23 (iFGF23) yields C-terminal FGF23 peptides (Cter-FGF23) that play a protective role in iron deficiency anemia (IDA) and inflammation. O-glycosylation of iFGF23 cleavage site by GALNT3 protects iFGF23 from cleavage, but the regulation of GALNT3 is unknown. We found that IDA increases the expression of miR-122-5p (miR122), which is a predicted inhibitor of Galnt3 expression. We hypothesized that inhibition of GALNT3 by miR122 results in increased iFGF23 cleavage in IDA.
Methods: Since miR122 is mainly produced by the liver, we generated mice 
harboring a conditional deletion of miR122 in hepatocytes (miR122cKO) by crossing miR122 floxed mice with mice expressing a Cre recombinase driven by the Albumin promoter. We induced IDA by feeding 3-week-old wild-type (WT) and miR122cKO mice either a control diet (Ctr) or a low iron diet (IDA) for 3 weeks. At 6 weeks of age, we analyzed serum biochemical and hematological parameters as well as bone Galnt3 expression in all mice.
Results: Compared to WT-Ctr, miR122cKO-Ctr mice exhibited reduced miR-
122 levels, increased bone Galnt3 expression and iFGF23 levels, despite normal total cFGF23. These mice also showed reduced iron levels and transferrin saturation, but normal hemoglobin levels and red blood cells counts. As expected, WT-IDA mice were anemic and showed higher levels of miR122, reduced Galnt3 expression along with a  
3.6-fold increase in total cFGF23 compared to WT-Ctr, and a slight but significant increase in iFGF23. Compared to WT-IDA, miR122cKO-IDA mice showed increased Galnt3 expression, total cFGF23 and iFGF23 levels, resulting in an increased i/cFGF23 ratio, a surrogate marker of FGF23 cleavage. miR122cKO-IDA mice also exhibited further reduced levels of iron and transferrin saturation, but this did not aggravate the severity of anemia in these mice.
Conclusions: Our results demonstrate that iron deficiency increases miR122, which 
inhibits osseous Galnt3 expression and results in increased FGF23 cleavage, elevated Cter-FGF23 but reduced iFGF23. miR122 could be a potential therapeutic target to reduce iFGF23 and thus improve adverse outcomes in early stages of CKD.
Funding: NIDDK Support
TH-OR34  Oral Abstract  Thursday
Research Advances in Bone and Mineral Metabolism
Direct Effects of FGF23 on Osteoblasts Contribute to Bone Defects in 
Dmp1KO Mice Independently of PhosphateDominik
 
Kentrup, Guillaume
 
Courbon, Hao-Hsuan
 T
sai, Xueyan
 W
ang, 
John
 
C.
 V
on Drasek, Jadeah
 
J.
 
Spindler, Lauriane
 
Hivert, Valentin
 
David, 
Aline
 
Martin. Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine, 
Chicago, IL.
Background: Fibroblast growth factor 23 (FGF23) is a phosphate (Pi)-regulating 
hormone produced in bone. Hereditary hypophosphatemic disorders are associated with 
FGF23 excess that leads to hypophosphatemia, impaired skeletal growth, rickets and osteomalacia. The blockade of FGF23 signaling to correct serum Pi levels has become a superior therapeutic strategy to Pi supplementation in X-linked hypophosphatemia, but remains untested in autosomal recessive hypophosphatemic rickets (ARHR). In this study, we compared the effects of reducing circulating FGF23 levels using osteocyte-
specific deletion of Fgf23 (Fgf23
cKO) to the effects of dietary Pi supplementation in the 
Dmp1 knockout (Dmp1KO) mouse model of ARHR.
Methods: We deleted Fgf23 specifically in osteocytes (Fgf23cKO) using a Dmp1-
cre recombinase, in wild-type (WT) and Dmp1KO mice. In addition, we fed WT and 
Dmp1KO mice a diet containing either 0.5% (NP) or 2% Pi (HP). In parallel, we cultured 
primary osteoblasts isolated from WT, Fgf23cKO, Dmp1KO and Dmp1KO/Fgf23cKO mice 
to understand the direct impact of FGF23 and DMP1 on osteoblast differentiation and 
activity.
Results: Compared with WT mice and concurrent with successful Fgf23 
deletion, Fgf23cKO mice showed reduced serum FGF23 levels and increased serum 
Pi levels, whereas Dmp1KO mice displayed highly increased serum FGF23 levels, 
hypophosphatemia, impaired growth, rickets and osteomalacia. In contrast, Dmp1KO/
Fgf23cKO mice showed a near complete correction of FGF23 excess, which fully restored 
serum Pi levels, but only partially corrected the bone phenotype. Compared to NP diet, HP diet increased circulating FGF23 levels, PTH levels, and phosphaturia in WT mice. HP-Dmp1
KO mice remained hypophosphatemic and showed exacerbated FGF23 production, 
hyperparathyroidism, and phosphaturia, resulting in a worsened bone phenotype. In vitro, we found that FGF23 directly impairs osteoblast differentiation and that DMP1 deficiency contributes to impaired mineralization independently of FGF23 or Pi levels.
Conclusions: To conclude, our data suggest that the direct effects of FGF23 and 
DMP1 on osteoblasts need to be considered to effectively correct ARHR-associated mineral and bone disorders, independently of hypophosphatemia.
Funding: NIDDK Support
TH-OR35  Oral Abstract  Thursday
Research Advances in Bone and Mineral Metabolism
The Essential Roles of miRNA and mTORC1 in Parathyroid Function 
and in Maintaining Parathyroid Glands in the AdultAlia
 
Hassan,1 Nareman  Khalaily,1 Rachel  Levin,2,1 Oded  V olovelsky,1 
Morris
 
Nechama,1 Iddo  Z. Ben-Dov,1 Tally  Naveh-Many.1 1Hadassah Hebrew 
University Medical Center, Jerusalem, Israel; 2Jerusalem Collage of 
Technology Lev Institute, Jerusalem, Israel .
Background: Secondary hyperparathyroidism (SHP) of CKD is a leading cause of 
morbidity and mortality. The molecular mechanisms governing basal PTH levels and SHP 
are undefined. We have shown that the parathyroid mTORC1 pathway is activated in CKD-SHP and that ablation of the miRNA processing enzyme Dicer and hence miRNA 
prevents CKD-SHP with no effect on basal serum PTH.
Methods: We generated mice with parathyroid (PT) specific KO of Dicer, mtorc1, 
tuberous sclerosis complex 1 (Tsc1) or double Dicer
-/- ;Tsc1-/- KO and tdTomato expression 
to identify the glands by fluorescent microscopy. Parathyroid sections were IF stained.
Results: Despite normal serum PTH, adult PT-Dicer-/- mice had no intact parathyroid 
glands, unlike controls. The glands were present at birth but soon after only clumps of parathyroid cells remained, indicating that Dicer and miRNA are not essential for parathyroid embryogenesis but rather for maintaining intact glands later in life. To characterize a miRNA-mTORC1 link in the parathyroid, we generated PT-mTORC1
-/- 
mice that had parathyroid cell clumps from early after birth but normal serum PTH, resembling PT-Dicer
-/- mice. In contrast, PT-Tsc1-/- mice with mTORC1 hyper-activation 
due to deletion of its inhibitor, had vastly larger (x10) glands and increased serum PTH and calcium levels. IF staining for parathyroid specific and proliferation markers supported the KO phenotypes. Importantly, a double PT-Dicer
-/- ;Tsc1-/- mouse had 
intact parathyroid glands similar to controls, indicating that Tsc1 ablation over-rides the 
aparathyoridism of Dicer KO.
Conclusions: miRNAs are essential for PTH stimulation in CKD induced SHP. Both 
miRNA and mTORC1 maintain intact glands in the adult.



Research Advances in Bone and Mineral Metabolism
Key: TH - Thursday; FR - Friday; SA - Saturday; OR - Oral; PO - Poster; PUB - Publication Only
Underline represents presenting author.
11
J Am Soc Nephrol 34: 2023Oral Abstract/Thursday
TH-OR36  Oral Abstract  Thursday
Research Advances in Bone and Mineral Metabolism
The Role of Osteopontin and Osteocyte-Derived Factors in Secondary 
Hyperparathyroidism-Induced Muscle DystrophyEduardo
 
J.
 
Duque,1 Shirley  F. Crispilho,2 Andre  Kakinoki Teng,1 Ivone  B.  
Oliveira,1 Luzia  N. Furukawa,1 Rosilene  M. Elias,1,2 Vanda  Jorgetti,1 
Rosa
 
M.
 
Moyses.1 1Universidade de Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil; 
2Universidade Nove de Julho, Sao Paulo, Brazil .
Background: Secondary hyperparathyroidism (SHPT) leads to harmful effects, 
including muscle dystrophy. We have previously shown that parathyroidectomy (PTX) 
improves muscle function, but not muscle mass. We hypothesized that this improvement is related to muscle inflammatory modulation. Osteopontin (OPN), a bone matrix protein, is stimulated by PTH and phosphate, and regulates the immune system at different levels. In this study, we sought to investigate the relationship between changes in mineral and bone metabolism (MBD) in patients with SHPT pre- and post-PTX, muscle expression of osteocyte-derived factors and inflammatory markers.
Methods: We prospectively enrolled 30 patients on dialysis (39 ys, 62% female) 
referred for PTX. Muscle phenotyping involved tissue analysis by immunohistochemistry, multiplex protein quantification, and gene expression; DXA for body composition; physical evaluation by accelerometer. Muscle biopsies were obtained from the vastus lateralis at baseline and 6 months after PTX, and from healthy controls. Biochemical parameters were also collected.
Results: MBD, DXA, physical evaluation, and tissue analysis are shown in Table1. 
We found a significant decrease in systemic and muscle OPN concentrations. Higher muscle OPN expression was noted at baseline compared to controls (11vs 2.9%*) and PTX led to a marked reduction (11vs 3%*). Systemic and muscle cytokines concentrations also decreased. Muscle, but not systemic, RANKL and sclerostin concentrations decreased after PTX. *p<0.01.
Conclusions: Our findings suggest that muscle OPN and osteocyte-derived factors 
might play a role in CKD-associated sarcopenia. In addition to its role in mineralization, OPN may foster muscle tissue inflammation, which is blunted after PTX. Based on these results, new pathways are revealed as therapeutic targets for uremic sarcopenia.
Funding: Government Support - Non-U.S.
TH-OR37  Oral Abstract  Thursday
Research Advances in Bone and Mineral Metabolism
Bone Quality in Uremic Patients: Interactions Between Parathyroid 
Hormone (PTH) and Propionic AcidElizabeth
 
M.
 
Kermgard,1 Katherine  W esseling-Perry,2 Thomas  Nickolas.3 
1Children’ s Hospital Los Angeles, Los Angeles, CA; 2Phoenix Children’ s 
Hospital, Phoenix, AZ; 3Columbia University Irving Medical Center,  
New York, NY.
Background: Chronic kidney disease (CKD) associated hyperparathyroidism (HPT) 
results in impaired bone quality and strength. While calcitriol deficiency partially drives 
elevations in parathyroid hormone (PTH), skeletal resistance to PTH also contributes to progressive HPT. In mice with normal kidney function, short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs) produced by the gut microbiome, were shown to moderate PTH effects on bone. Interactions between SCFAs and PTH on bone quality in humans with CKD are unknown. We hypothesized that SCFAs moderate the skeletal effects of PTH in CKD.
Methods: In a cross-sectional study of 60 CKD patients with double label transiliac 
crest bone biopsies, we measured parameters of dynamic histomorphometry, PTH and 24 SCFA metabolites (Metabolon, Inc). Ages were 29-88 yrs, 13% were on dialysis and 40% were male. High resolution peripheral quantitative computed tomography (HRpQCT; resolution 60 
µ
m3) imaging of the radius and tibia for cortical (Ct) and trabecular (Tb) 
geometry, density and microarchitecture was performed in a subset of 45 patients. SCFAs were dichotomized at the median. Generalized linear regression models were used to evaluate relationships between bone outcomes, PTH, SCFA, SCFA-PTH and SCFA-sex interactions.
Results: We found that the SCFA, propionic acid (PA), modified relationships between 
PTH and bone outcomes. In contrast to low levels of PA, high levels of PA and PTH were associated with thicker osteoid (β=3.32, SE 1.58, p=0.041) on histomorphometry, thicker cortices at the radius (β=12.50, SE 3.43, p=0.001) and tibia (β=24.46, SE 8.34, p=0.006) and greater Tb volumetric density (β=26.59, SE 11.28, p=0.024) at the radius by HRpQCT.
Conclusions: In conclusion, in a cohort of CKD patients with bone biopsy and 
HRpQCT imaging, we observed that PA modified the skeletal response to PTH. When PA levels were elevated, higher PTH was associated with better bone quality. In contrast, when PA levels were low, higher PTH levels were associated with catabolic effects on bone quality. Prospective studies are needed to investigate whether PA has a therapeutic role in the management of renal osteodystrophy.
Funding: NIDDK Support, Private Foundation Support, Clinical Revenue Support
TH-OR38  Oral Abstract  Thursday
Research Advances in Bone and Mineral Metabolism
Calcium Isotope Ratios in Serum: A Novel Biomarker of Bone and Vessel 
Calcium Balance in Patients on DialysisRukshana
 
Shroff,1 Anton  Eisenhauer ,2 Alexander  Heuser ,2 Ana Kolevica,2 
Michael
 
Mueller,4 Patrick  D’Haese,3 Pieter  Evenepoel.5 1UCL Great Ormond 
Street Hospital and Institute of Child Health, London, United Kingdom; 
2Geomar Helmholtz Centre for Ocean Research, Kiel, Kiel, Germany; 
3Universiteit Antwerpen, Antwerpen, Belgium; 4University Medical Center 
Schleswig-Holstein (UKSH), Kiel, Germany; 5KU Leuven, Department of 
Immunology and Microbiology, Laboratory of Nephrology, Leuven, Belgium .
Background: Dysregulated mineral homeostasis in CKD can cause bone 
demineralization and vascular calcification. We have shown that non-radioactive calcium 
(Ca) isotopes, 42Ca and 44Ca, that are naturally present in our diet can be measured in 
serum, and their ratio (δ44/42Caserum) quantitatively determines changes in bone Ca balance 
(BCaB). Isotopically light 42Ca is preferentially incorporated into bone, so δ44/42Caserum 
increases when bone formation exceeds resorption and vice versa. We studied bone and arterial biopsies to determine the sensitivity of δ
44/42Caserum in estimating BCaB and 
vascular calcification.
Methods: 44Ca and 42Ca were measured by inductively coupled plasma mass-
spectrometry in the serum, bone and arterial biopsies of 19 chronic dialysis patients. Data were compared with adults with osteoporosis.
Results: δ
44/42Caserum and δ44/42Cabone were significantly lower in dialysis patients 
(median age 59.8 years, time on dialysis 3.3 years) compared to adults with osteoporosis, implying lower BCaB in dialysis patients.(Fig 1). δ
44/42Caserum showed a strong positive 
correlation with δ44/42Cabone and δ44/42Cavessel. δ44/42Ca serum and bone correlated positively 
with the BAP/TRAP5-b ratio and osteoblastic markers P1NP and inversely with 
osteoclastic markers PTH and RANKL. Although δ44/42Caserum indicated low BCaB in 
89%, only 31% manifested DXA confirmed osteoporosis (T-scores <-2.5). On histology δ
44/42Cabone inversely correlated with osteoid area and positively with absolute mineralized 
area and trabecular thickness. Significant and independent predictors of δ44/42Caserum were 



J Am Soc Nephrol 34: 2023
 Research Advances in Bone and Mineral Metabolism
 Oral Abstract Thursday
 8+442Ca
 (p=0.01, 95%CI -1.35 to -0.26), BAP TRAPS-b ratio (p0.04, 95%CI 0.04 to
 TH-OR4O
 none
 0.26) and osteoid
 area
 (p0.03, 95%CI -1.11 to
 0.09), together predicting 79% of the
 variability in 8442Ca
 Loss of Renal Tubular Claudin-2 Increases Renal Calcification and
 ~rum
 Conclusions: 84442Ca
 is a significant and independent maker of BCaB, correlating
 Urinary Stone Disease
 Ser
 with bone
 histology; and may provide
 a more sensitive and non-invasive measure of
 Muthuvel Jayachandran; Heather L. Holmes, Zejfa Haskic, Andrew D. Rule,
 BCaB than bone biomarkers or DXA
 Michael F. Romero, Kevin Koo, John C Lieske. Mayo Clinic College of
 Funding: Government Support
 Non-U.S_
 Medicine and Science, Rochester; MN.
 Background:
 Mechanisms
 of'
 hypercalciuria-associated
 renal
 calcification and
 P
 0.00 4
 urinary stone disease (USD) are not completely understood. Global Claudin-2 knockout
 0,0=
 (Cldn2KO)
 male
 mice
 share
 many key
 features   of
 human
 hypercalciuric   idiopathic
 ~0,5.
 0,0001
 calcium
 stone
 formers   (ICSFs):
 Here
 we
 characterized
 urine
 biochemistry,
 urinary
 2
 10-
 extracellular vesicles (UEVs); and renal pathophysiology to determine if uEVs could serve
 45.
 as a
 biomarker for human idiopathic, hypercalciuric, first time stone formers (SFs) with
 8
 -20
 potential pathologic changes in renal claudin-2 (Clnd2 
 expression_
 Methods:
 Twenty-hour
 (24-h)
 urine
 samples
 were
 collected
 from
 male
 mice
 25-
 (Cldn2KO
 (n-12) and
 age-matched
 wild   type
 WT;
 n=8
 and   human
 SFs (n-20;
 3.0-
 hypercalciuric SFs and age-/sex-matched non-SFs (NSFs).
 vivo renal calcification
 mice were measured by Bruker high-resolution
 in vivo 3D X-ray
 microtomography. Data
 are
 presented as median (254, 75uh percentile) and analyzed by Wilcoxon rank-sum test to
 identify statistically significant (P<0.0S) differences between groups.
 TH-OR39
 Results: Age, body  weight;  total  24-h
 urine
 volume; milliosmole.
 excretion   of'
 24-h
 urine albumin, Cl
 phosphorous, Kt, protein, and Nat
 were not different between
 Role of Plasma Inorganic Pyrophosphate in Calciphylaxis: A Prospective
 Cldn2KO and WT mice. However; 24-h excretion of urinary Cal+ was greater (P<0.002;
 Study
 Fig:
 in Cldn2KO compared to WT mice. Spontaneous renal papillary calcifications were
 Api Chewcharat;
 Houda Bouchouari,
 Scott Krinsky; ! Jennifer Howe;?
 identified in Cldn2KO (Fig_
 but not WT mice_
 Cldn2 protein expression
 on
 uEVs was
 Jeanfranco Torcatti_
 Borut Cizman
 Yves
 Sabbagh;
 U. Nigwekar:
 increased in SFs compared NSFs (P0.004; Fig:).
 Conclusions: Loss of renal tubular CInd2 protein increased urinary Ca?+ excretion
 'Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA; ~Inozyme Pharma, Boston, MA.
 and
 papillary calcification in mice. Our nephrectomy patients study showed a
 significant
 Background:  Calciphylaxis
 devastating   disorder   characterized by  painful
 decrease
 in  CInd2   expression
 in  SFs  compared NSFs
 Thus,
 increased
 excretion   of'
 skin lesions caused by calcific microvascular occlusion and
 no approved treatment_
 Cldn2 protein carrying UEVs in hypercalciuric SFs may reflect decreased tubular Cldn2
 experimental models and genetic disorders, deficiency of pyrophosphate (PPi) is linked
 protein expression that results in reduced renal Ca?- reabsorption and increased USD,
 and
 with
 vascular calcification
 and neointimal proliferation.
 This study
 was conducted to
 quantification of Clnd2
 content of uEVs could
 serve
 useful biomarker for further
 investigate the influence of plasma PPi on severity and outcomes in calciphylaxis_
 studies.
 Methods: In this  prospective   study;
 we
 enrolled 70 patients   with calciphylaxis_
 Funding: NIDDK Support; Private Foundation Support
 Plasma PPi levels were measured
 ATP Sulfurylase/Luminescence-based method
 05
 10"=
 at enrollment (n-70) and at 6-week follow up (n-30). We examined the associations of
 J
 Clnd2Ko mouse
 Pe0e4
 P<0 002
 1) PPi levels at enrollment with skin lesion count;
 severity (assessed by Brief Pain
 Inventory) , and 6-week mortality; and 2) change in PPi levels over 6-week period after
 10'=
 enrollment with 12-week mortality:
 1
 Results: Median age of our cohort was 60 years and 67% of
 patients had end-stage
 4o"-
 kidney disease_
 Median skin lesion count was 3 [IQR: 2-4] and median
 severity
 
 02-
 score was 5 [IQR: 4-7]. Median PPi levels were 568 nM [IQR: 253-1205] at enrollment
 and 1155 nM [IQR: 835-1456] at 6-week follow up. At enrollment; there were modest
 negative associations of PPi with skin lesion count (r-0.26) and pain severity (r-0.28)_
 Mortality
 at 6
 weeks was 21%. Among patients who died by 6-week follow up. PPi
 Cindzko
 levels at enrollment were 66% lower compared
 to patients who
 were
 alive (p0.002)
 (Fig).
 In adjusted models, for every 100 nM
 decrease in PPi at enrollment  there
 was
 25% increased risk of 6-week mortality: Decrease in PPi levels over 6-week period since
 enrollment was associated with increased 12-week mortality (p0.04).
 Conclusions: Our novel
 findings demonstrate the potential of PPi as
 target for
 therapies aimed at improving patient-oriented and clinical outcomes in calciphylaxis.
 Funding: Commercial Support
 Inozyme Pharma
 Median plasma PPi levels at enrollment
 and 6-week mortality
 among patients with calciphvlaxis
 1200
 P-0.002
 900
 1
 2
 600-
 300-
 Dead
 Alive
 (n-15)
 (n-5s)
 Plasma PPi and mortality in Calciphylaxis
 TH
 Thursday; FR - Friday; SA - Saturday; OR
 Oral; PO - Poster; PUB
 Publication Only
 Underline represents presenting author:
 12
 Sagar
 using
 pain
 pain
 1
 Key:
 



Hemodialysis Care: Quality, Vascular Access, and Emerging Threats
Key: TH - Thursday; FR - Friday; SA - Saturday; OR - Oral; PO - Poster; PUB - Publication Only
Underline represents presenting author.
13
J Am Soc Nephrol 34: 2023Oral Abstract/Thursday
TH-OR41  Oral Abstract  Thursday
Hemodialysis Care: Quality, Vascular Access, and Emerging Threats
The Relationship Between Patient Activation and Clinical Outcomes:  
A Longitudinal, Retrospective, Observational Study
Wael  F
. Hussein,1,2 Tejas  Gopal,2,1 Shijie  Chen,1 Eric  D. Weinhandl.1,3 
1Satellite Healthcare, San Jose, CA; 2Stanford University School of Medicine, 
Palo Alto, CA; 3University of Minnesota Twin Cities College of Pharmacy, 
Minneapolis, MN.
Background: Patient activation, defined as an individual’s readiness, willingness, 
and ability to manage their own health and health care, is associated with healthy 
behaviors and improved outcomes. Patients undergoing in-center hemodialysis (HD) have low activation, but the association of patient activation with clinical outcomes among dialysis patients is unclear. We investigated the association between patient activation and outcomes in HD patients.
Methods: This cohort included 925 prevalent, in-center HD patients among 10 
facilities in a mid-sized dialysis provider. Patients had completed a PAM-13 survey—a measure of patient activation—during a previous study. Patients were followed for 180 days after completion of the survey for the co-primary outcomes of (1) death and (2) the composite of death or hospitalization. Markers of non-adherence were examined as secondary outcomes, including (1) serum potassium >5.0 mEq/L; (2) serum phosphorus >5.5 mg/dL; (3) missed dialysis treatment due to absence (not hospitalization); and (4) interdialytic weight gain >4.0%. Univariate and adjusted regression models were fit to estimate associations of a 3-point increment in PAM-13 score with the outcomes of interest; adjustment factors comprised age, sex, dialysis vintage, serum albumin, andhospitalization history.
Results: A 3-point increment in PAM score was associated with lower hazard of 
death (univariate HR=0.89, 95% CI: 0.84 – 0.94; adjusted HR=0.91, 95% CI: 0.86-0.96), but not with the composite outcome of death or hospitalization (univariate HR=0.98, 95% CI: 0.96 – 1.00; adjusted HR=0.99, 95% CI: 0.96–1.00). There were no significant relationships between a 3-point increment in PAM score and any of the secondary outcomes in univariate and adjusted analyses.
Conclusions: In a cohort of prevalent, in-center HD patients, low activation was 
associated with mortality but not with hospitalization or measures of non-adherence.
Funding: Private Foundation Support
TH-OR42  Oral Abstract  Thursday
Hemodialysis Care: Quality, Vascular Access, and Emerging Threats
Self-Efficacy and Social Support Determine Self-Reported Health in 
Hemodialysis PatientsKrister
 Cromm,1,2 Le Hong Ngoc  Pham,2 Hanna  Jaha,1 Anna  Schappert,1 
Gregor  Liegl,1 Kathrin  I. Fischer,1 Felix  Fischer,1 Matthias  Rose.1 
CONVINCE Scientific Committee and CONVINCE Investigators. 1Charite 
Universitatsmedizin Berlin, Berlin, Germany; 2Fresenius Medical Care 
Deutschland GmbH, Bad Homburg, Germany.
Background: Patients with kidney disease receiving dialysis are a highly vulnerable 
population. There is some evidence from small studies that Health-Related Quality of 
Life (HRQL) in these patients is influenced by psychosocial determinants, but their relevance for clinical outcomes is debated. We investigated whether Self-Efficacy (SE) and Social Support (SS) can explain differences in HRQL outcome domains over time in hemodialysis patients.
Methods: HRQL in 1264 participants from the CONVINCE randomized, controlled 
trial investigating hemodiafiltration versus hemodialysis were assessed, using screening and quarterly follow-up data up to 24 months. Measures included the MOS Social Support Scale, General Self-Efficacy Scale, Perceived Stress Questionnaire and PROMIS short forms for fatigue, physical function, pain interference and intensity, sleep disturbance, anxiety, cognitive function, depression, and ability to participate in social roles. SE and SS were included as independent variables and HRQL domains as dependent variables in a linear mixed effects model with random intercept and slope for SE and SS.
Results: Participants were 20-92 (M =62.33, SD=13.50) years old, 62.9% were male. 
Linear mixed effect regression models showed significant main effects for self-efficacy (β=.85-4.84, p<.001) on all HRQL domains. Main effects for social support were found for 
Cognition, Depression, Pain Intensity and Sleep (β =.27-2.17, p<.01). For time, significant 
main effects were found for Anxiety and Sleep (β =.56 & .50, p<.01). Significant SE x Time 
interactions were found for Anxiety, Depression and Sleep (β =.11-.19, p<.05). Significant 
SS x Time interactions were found for Cognition and Sleep (β =.17 & .18, p <.01).
Conclusions: Our results indicate that higher SE is associated with higher HRQL 
of dialysis patients over time. Effects of SE are larger than those of SS and larger than previously reported. This bears the chance to develop targeted psychosocial interventions to improve health outcomes when undergoing dialysis.
Funding: Government Support - Non-U.S.
TH-OR43  Oral Abstract  Thursday
Hemodialysis Care: Quality, Vascular Access, and Emerging Threats
Impact of Conservative Management vs. Dialysis on the Survival of US 
Veterans with Advanced CKDConnie
 Rhee
,1 Yoko  Narasaki,1 Susan  T. Crowley ,2 Csaba  P. Kovesdy,3 
Dana  B. Mukamel,1 Seungsook  You,1 Alejandra  Novoa-Vargas,1  
Ji Hoon  Y
oon,1 Danh  V . Nguyen,1 Kamyar  Kalantar-Zadeh.4 1University of 
California Irvine School of Medicine, Irvine, CA; 2Yale University, New 
Haven, CT; 3The University of Tennessee Health Science Center, Memphis, 
TN; 4Harbor-UCLA Medical Center, Torrance, CA.
Background: Given that dialysis patients may experience high early mortality 
rates, healthcare utilization, and withdrawal, particularly in those of older age and multi-
morbidity, there has been interest in conservative management (CM) as an alternative treatment strategy for advanced CKD patients. Among a national cohort of US Veterans, we compared the impact of CM vs. dialysis on survival.
Methods: Using linked national V A, USRDS, and Medicare data, we examined 
Veterans with advanced CKD (≥2 eGFRs <25 separated by ≥90 days) categorized 
according to receipt of CM vs. dialysis (non-receipt vs. receipt of dialysis within 2-yrs of the 1
st eGFR <25), with the latter group parsed into later dialysis (LD) vs. earlier dialysis 
(ED) (eGFRs <15 vs. ≥15 at dialysis transition, respectively). We compared survival 
in CM vs. dialysis patients matched by propensity score (PS) in a 1:1 ratio to address confounding by indication using Cox models.
Results: Among 91,598 patients who met eligibility criteria, 3628 CM patients were 
PS-matched to 3628 ED patients, while 9833 CM patients were PS-matched to 9833 LD patients. In PS-matched models, both ED and LD were each associated with higher mortality vs. CM: HRs (95%CIs) 1.25 (1.19-1.32) and 1.08 (1.05-1.12), respectively. Similar findings were observed in sensitivity analyses doubly-adjusted for PS covariates. When examining survival trajectories after the index eGFR date, ED and LD demonstrated worse survival vs. CM after 2-years and 4-years, respectively.
Conclusions: In a national cohort of US Veterans, earlier transition to dialysis was 
associated with worse survival compared to CM. Later transition to dialysis was also associated with worse survival vs. CM, albeit to a lesser degree. Further studies are needed to examine the impact of CM vs. dialysis transition on other hard endpoints and patient-centered outcomes.
Funding: NIDDK Support




Hemodialysis Care: Quality, Vascular Access, and Emerging Threats
Key: TH - Thursday; FR - Friday; SA - Saturday; OR - Oral; PO - Poster; PUB - Publication Only
Underline represents presenting author.
14
J Am Soc Nephrol 34: 2023Oral Abstract/Thursday
TH-OR44  Oral Abstract  Thursday
Hemodialysis Care: Quality, Vascular Access, and Emerging Threats
Encouraging a Standardized ESKD Transition Approach in a  
Comprehensive Kidney Care Contracting (CKCC) Program  Is Associated with Increased Optimal Dialysis StartsRoy
 
G.
 
Marcus,1 Dave  M. Miller,3 Brian  H. Nathanson,2 Steven  Henry,3 
Nirav
 V
akharia.3 1Clinical Renal Associates Ltd, Exton, P A; 2OptiStatim, 
Longmeadow, MA; 3Panoramic Health, Tempe, AZ.
Background: The standard care for chronic kidney disease (CKD) is shifting from 
a “fee-for-service” model that focuses on volume of care and profitability of services to 
a Value Based Care (VBC) model that rewards better outcomes. It is well-established that starting ESKD care with peritoneal dialysis (PD) or hemodialysis (HD) with either an arteriovenous (A V) fistula or A V graft, instead of HD with a central venous catheter (CVC), produces better mortality, morbidity, and cost outcomes. The purpose of this study was to determine if a standardized ESKD transition pathway could improve the number of optimal starts within Kidney Care Entities (KCEs).
Methods: All patients were in the Comprehensive Kidney Care Contracting (CKCC) 
program. The CKCC program defines an optimal start to be the initiation of dialysis without a CVC. We recorded the proportion of optimal starts and the initial modality type (HD vs PD) in adult Medicare patients at 4 geographically diverse KCEs within a single physician-led nephrology organization. Data were recorded quarterly (Q) during 2022. During Q1-Q2, patients and clinicians were formally instructed on the benefits of optimal starts only. Starting in Q3, a standardized care pathway was deployed for patients at high risk for transition to ESKD across all 4 KCEs, inclusive of electronic health record and analytics tools, and treatment teams were provided lists of patients who met the high risk criteria. The proportion of optimal starts and the proportional of initial PD from Q1-Q2 versus Q3-Q4 were compared with Student’s t-test for proportions.
Results: In 2022, the 4 KCEs treated 9,099 patients with 5,457 (60.0%) having CKD. 
371 patients initiated dialysis during the study period with 164 (44.2%) in Q1-Q2. The proportion of optimal starts increased from 37.2% (61/164) in Q1-Q2 to 53.1% (110/207) in Q3-Q4, p = 0.002. The proportion of PD starts increased from 11.0% (18/164) in  
Q1-Q2 to 26.1% (54/207) in Q3-Q4, p <0.001.
Conclusions: The deployment of a standardized ESKD transition pathway as part of 
an intensive VBC educational program is associated with a significant increase in both optimal starts and the number of patients starting on PD.
TH-OR45  Oral Abstract  Thursday
Hemodialysis Care: Quality, Vascular Access, and Emerging Threats
Higher Patient-to-Patient Care Technician Ratios Associated with Worse 
Outcomes Among US In-Center Hemodialysis PatientsLaura
 
Plantinga ,1 Alexis  A. Bender ,1 Megan  Urbanski,1 Courtney  E. Hoge,1 
Jennifer
 
C.
 
Morgan,2 Bernard  G. Jaar.3 1Emory University, Atlanta, GA; 
2Georgia State University, Atlanta, GA; 3Johns Hopkins University, 
Baltimore, MD.
Background: It is increasingly difficult to maintain adequate dialysis patient care 
technician (PCT) staffing at U.S. in-center hemodialysis (ICHD) facilities. We aimed to 
explore the associations of ICHD patient outcomes with facility-level PCT  staffing.
Methods: U.S. patients (ages 18-100) initiating ICHD between 1/1/16 and 12/31/18 
were included if they remained on ICHD for ≥90 days and had data on PCT staffing at their ICHD facility (N=236,126; mean age, 63.1; 57.6% male; 27.9% Black; 61.8% with diabetes; 60.2% starting ICHD with a catheter only). We estimated the association of time to 1-year patient outcomes with facility-level PCT staffing (=quartiles of patient:PCT ratios) using mixed-effects Poisson regression, with censoring as appropriate and adjustment for age, sex, race, pre-end-stage kidney disease nephrology care, diabetes, and first vascular access type.
Results: After adjustment, highest vs. lowest quartile of facility-level patient:PCT 
ratio was associated with 11%, 10%, and 10% higher rates of patient mortality, hospitalization, and readmission, respectively; associations with rates of waitlisting and transplant were not significant (Figure 1). Highest vs. lowest quartile of patient:PCT ratio was associated with 10%, 13%, and 22% higher rates of fluid overload-, sepsis-, and vascular access-related hospitalizations, respectively ( Figure 2).
Conclusions: Patients initiating treatment in facilities with the least adequate PCT 
staffing may have worse early outcomes. While effects are modest and causal inference is limited, our results support further investigation of the effects of U.S. PCT staffing on patient safety and quality of U.S. ICHD care.
Funding: Other U.S. Government Support
TH-OR46  Oral Abstract  Thursday
Hemodialysis Care: Quality, Vascular Access, and Emerging Threats
The Impact of Affordable Care Act Medicaid Expansions on Dialysis 
Facility Medicaid Enrollment and Quality MeasuresAllison
 C.
 Reaves
,1 Hocine  Tighiouart,1 Cindy  P .  Thomas,2 Daniel  E.  W einer.1 
1Tufts Medical Center, Boston, MA; 2Brandeis University Heller School for 
Social Policy and Management, Waltham, MA.
Background: The Centers for Medicaid and Medicare Services proposed using 
Medicare Medicaid dual eligible enrollment (DEE) to adjust for social risk in dialysis 
facility quality scores. Because Medicaid eligibility varies by state, in part due to variable uptake of Affordable Care Act (ACA) Medicaid expansions, we examined the extent to which dialysis facility location in an expansion state was associated with increased DEE and improved dialysis facility quality scores.
Methods: Using data from the ESRD Quality Improvement Program (QIP) and 
US Renal Data System, we identified a longitudinal cohort of US hemodialysis dialysis facilities with ESRD QIP data from 2012-2018. We tested whether location in an expansion state was associated with increases in the proportion of Medicaid-enrolled incident and dual-eligible enrolled prevalent dialysis patients as well as improved ESRD QIP total performance scores (TPS) and vascular access scores (V AS). We compared pre-expansion data (2012-2013) with early and late post-expansion times points (2015 and 2018, respectively). We used a difference-in-differences approach and adjusted for facility patient characteristics and area-level social vulnerabilities.
Results: Expansions were associated with increases in incident patient Medicaid 
enrollment in the early and late expansion periods (5.5 percentage points, 95% CI  
(4.6, 6.5) and 7.4 percentage points, 95% CI (6.4, 8.4), respectively) and increases in dialysis facility DEE in the late expansion period (1.3 percentage points, 95% CI (0.7, 1.9)). Facility location in an expansion state was also associated with an increase of 2.2 points (95% CI (1.3, 3.1)) in TPS in the late expansion period. Catheter measure scores were lower and fistula measure scores higher in facilities located in expansion states. There was not a clear pattern of improvement in V AS associated with expansions.
Conclusions: Dialysis facilities in states that have not implemented Medicaid 
expansions may experience lower growth of Medicaid enrollment due to limited Medicaid coverage available to their patients and may also have a greater decline in quality scores. Accordingly, adjustments to quality performance metrics based on DEE may favor facilities located in expansion states and further exacerbate health disparities among patients receiving dialysis.
Funding: Other NIH Support - NIH grant TL1TR002546, Private Foundation 
Support
TH-OR47  Oral Abstract  Thursday
Hemodialysis Care: Quality, Vascular Access, and Emerging Threats
Roles of Matrix Metalloproteinase-2 and ETS Proto-Oncogene 1 in 
Rodent Arteriovenous Fistula DevelopmentHannah
 
M.
 
Northrup,1 Yan-Ting  E. Shiu,1,2 CS Jason  T ey,1 Yuxia  He,1 
Edgar
 A.
 Jaimes.3 1University of Utah Health, Salt Lake City, UT; 2VA Salt 
Lake City Health Care System, Salt Lake City, UT; 3Memorial Sloan 
Kettering Cancer Center, New York, NY.
Background: Arteriovenous fistulas (A VFs) have high rates of maturation failure 
with no proven effective treatments. A few clinical studies have reported that stenotic 
A VFs had increased expression of matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) when compared to native veins, and post-surgery fibrosis in newly created A VFs was positively associated with maturation failure. This study therefore examined the roles of MMP-2,  
which is a critical MMP in vascular remodeling, and the transcription factor ETS proto-oncogene 1 (ETS-1), which is a potent pro-fibrotic factor, in A VF maturation development.
Methods: Carotid-jugular A VFs were created in global MMP-2 homozygous 
knockout (MMP-2 KO) mice on C57BL/6 background, with C57BL/6 mice serving as wild-type (WT) controls. Femoral A VFs were created in global ETS-1 heterozygous knockout (ETS-1 KO) rats on Sprague-Dawley (SD) background, with SD rats serving as WT controls. A VFs and contralateral non-surgical veins were harvested at 1 and 4 weeks after A VF creation for RNA sequencing (RNA-seq), histology, and morphometry.
Results: In our mouse studies, RNA-seq data indicated drastically different 
transcriptional profiles between non-surgical veins and A VFs at 1 week after A VF creation. Genes regulated by MMP-2 and ETS-1 were significantly enriched in A VFs. Both MMP-2 KO and ETS-1 KO had significantly increased open lumen area of the A VF veins when compapred to WT controls. In mouse studies, the percent open lumen area of 



Hemodialysis Care: Quality, Vascular Access, and Emerging Threats
Key: TH - Thursday; FR - Friday; SA - Saturday; OR - Oral; PO - Poster; PUB - Publication Only
Underline represents presenting author.
15
J Am Soc Nephrol 34: 2023Oral Abstract/Thursday
the A VF veins was significantly larger in MMP KO (39% ± 6%) vs. WT (11% ± 2%) at  
1 week, as well as at 4 weeks (MMP-2 KO: 20% ± 4%, WT: 6% ± 3%) (p<0.05 for both 
time points). ETS-1 expression was decreased in MMP-2 KO when compapred to WT. In 
rat studies, the percent open lumen area of the A VF veins was significantly larger in ETS-1 KO (70% ± 9%) vs. WT (39% ± 15%) at 1 week (p=0.04) and trending larger in ETS-1 
KO (52% ± 26%) vs. WT (22% ± 7%) at 4 weeks (p=0.13).
Conclusions: Our animal studies showed that inhibition of MMP-2 and ETS-1 by 
genetic knockout improved A VF development. Therapeutic approaches of inhibiting these molecules may enhance A VF maturation in hemodialysis patients.
Funding: NIDDK Support
TH-OR48  Oral Abstract  Thursday
Hemodialysis Care: Quality, Vascular Access, and Emerging Threats
Long-Term Intervention Rate with Drug-Coated Balloons for Dysfunctional 
Arteriovenous (A V) Fistulas: Meeting KDOQI Targets in the IN.PACT A V Access TrialAnjana
 
Gopal, Charmaine
 
E.
 
Lok. University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, 
Canada.
Background: A key KDOQI Guidelines target is to have ≤3 percutaneous or surgical 
interventions per year to maintain A V fistula (A VF) patency. We aimed to define the 
intervention and thrombosis rates per A VF-years through 36 months from the IN.PACT A V Access trial.
Methods: This global, 29-center, single-blinded pivotal study randomized participants 
with de novo or non-stented restenotic obstructive lesion(s) of upper extremity A VF 1:1 to treatment with an IN.PACT A V paclitaxel drug-coated balloon (DCB; n=170) or standard percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (PTA; n=160). Participants were followed for 36 months; intervention rates and fistula-years of use were captured and compared to KDOQI guidelines target. 36 month thrombosis rates were compared between DCB and PTA groups.
Results: Of the 330 participants randomized, 133 completed their 3-year visit. 
Including the index procedure, the rates of intervention ranged 1.24-2.55 per A VF-year for DCB group and 1.48-3.06 per A VF-year for PTA group (Table). The cumulative incidence rate of access circuit thrombosis at 36 months was 8.2% (10) in DCB group and 18.3% (19) in PTA group with a hazard ratio of 0.457 (95% confidence interval: 0.212- 0.983; P = 0.04).
Conclusions: The need for interventions to maintain patency and thrombosis rate 
was reduced with use of DCB compared with PTA at the 1-, 2-, and 3-year timepoints post index procedure for the treatment of dysfunctional A VF. At the 3-year timepoint, both DCB and PTA groups met the KDOQI targets for A VF interventions per year to maintain patency.
Number of target lesion interventions per fistula years
A VF, arteriovenous fistula; DCB, drug-coated balloon; No, number; PTA, percutaneous 
transluminal angioplasty.
TH-OR49  Oral Abstract  Thursday
Hemodialysis Care: Quality, Vascular Access, and Emerging Threats
Extreme Heat Exposure and Mortality Among Patients Receiving 
DialysisMatthew
 
F.
 
Blum,1 Yijing  Feng,4 Cascade  T uholske,5 Byoungjun  Kim,2 
Mara
 
McAdams-DeMarco,2 Brad  C. Astor ,3 Morgan  Grams.2 1The Johns 
Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD; 2New York 
University Grossman School of Medicine, New York, NY; 3University of 
Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI; 4Harvard University T H Chan School of 
Public Health, Boston, MA; 5Montana State University, Bozeman, MT.
Background: Patients receiving maintenance dialysis represent a population 
vulnerable to extreme weather events such as wildfires and hurricanes, but the dangers 
posed by extreme heat exposure remain to be determined.
Methods: In the United States Renal Data System, we identified adults living in US 
cities prone to extreme heat who initiated maintenance dialysis from 1997 to 2016. We defined an extreme heat event as a heat index of >40.6°C for ≥2 days or >46.1°C for ≥1 
day. We estimated the risk of death during a heat event using adjusted Cox proportional hazards regression and tested for effect modification by age, sex, race and ethnicity, year of dialysis initiation, dialysis modality, poverty level, and climate region.
Results: Among 945,437 adults in 246 cities, the median age was 64 years and 44% 
were female. During a median follow-up of 3.7 years, 519,748 adults were exposed to at least one of 7,152 extreme heat events, and 530,616 deaths occurred. In adjusted models, there was an increased risk of death (HR, 1.18; 95% CI, 1.15 to 1.20) during exposure to extreme heat (Table). Relative mortality risk was higher among patients who were ≥65 years-old (P=0.003), male (P=0.04), and living in the Northern Rockies and Plains (P=0.03), Ohio Valley (P=0.02), Northeast (P=0.01), and Southeast (P<0.001). Relative mortality risk was lower among Hispanic patients (P=0.02) compared to non-Hispanic White patients (Figure).
Conclusions: Patients receiving maintenance dialysis face an increased risk of death 
during extreme heat.
Funding: Other NIH Support - NHLBI
Risk of death with extreme heat exposure
Demographics model adjusted for age, sex, race and ethnicity, body mass index, dialysis initiation year, dialysis modality, and climate region. Demographics and socioeconomic status model additionally adjusted for education level, poverty level, and housing cost.
Relative risk of death among subgroups accounting for multiplicative effect modification
TH-OR50  Oral Abstract  Thursday
Hemodialysis Care: Quality, Vascular Access, and Emerging Threats
Exposure to Wildfire-Related Particulate Matter and Risk of Hospital-
ization and Mortality Among Hemodialysis PatientsHyeonjin
 
Song,1 Nicole  E. Sieck,1 Jochen  G. Raimann,2 Peter  Kotanko,2,3 
Franklin
 
W.
 Maddux,4 Evan  A.  Ellicott,1 Amir  Sapkota.1 1The University of 
Maryland, College Park, MD; 2Renal Research Institute, New York, NY; 
3Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY; 4Fresenius Medical 
Care Holdings Inc, Waltham, MA.
Background: Ongoing climate change is contributing to increases in frequency and 
severity of wildfires and the length of wildfire season. Wildfires are major sources of air 
pollution including fine particulate matter (aerodynamic diameter < 2.5 microns; PM2.5) 
that may disproportionately impact vulnerable populations such as hemodialysis patients. We investigated the effect of wildfire-related PM
2.5 on hospitalization and mortality risk 
among hemodialysis patients.
Methods: We analyzed health records of 79,963 hemodialysis patients who received 
in-center hemodialysis treatment at 191 Fresenius Kidney Care clinics in Washington, Oregon, and California during 2005-2018. We estimated wildfire-related PM
2.5 for each 
of the clinics using satellite-derived smoke polygons (Hazard Mapping System) and ground-based PM
2.5 monitors (Air Quality System operated by Environmental Protection 
Agency). We conducted a time-stratified case-crossover analysis with a conditional Poisson model to investigate the association between exposure to wildfire-related PM
2.5 
and risk of hospitalization and mortality among hemodialysis patients.
Results: The daily wildfire-related PM2.5 concentration during the study period 
ranged from 0 to 551.3µg/m3 with the average of 0.7µg/m3 (SD=5.7µg/m3). A 10µg/m3  
increase in wildfire-related PM2.5 was associated with 1% higher risk of all-cause 
hospitalization (RR: 1.01, 95% CI: 0.99, 1.02), and 4% higher risk of all-cause mortality (RR: 1.04, 95% CI: 1.02, 1.06).
Conclusions: We observed positive associations between increases in wildfire-
related PM
2.5 concentration and risk of all-cause hospitalization and mortality. Our 
findings highlight the need for targeted intervention, including early warnings, timely relocation of patients during wildfire events or improved air filtration systems to mitigate the adverse health effects of wildfire-related air pollution.
TH-OR51  Oral Abstract  Thursday
Improving Clinical Outcomes in Diabetic Kidney Disease
Glycated Albumin and Adverse Clinical Outcomes in Patients with CKD
Mengyao
 
Tang,1 Anders  H. Berg,2 Eugene  P. Rhee,1 Andrew  S.  Allegretti,1 
Sagar
 
U.
 
Nigwekar,1 S. Ananth  Karumanchi,2 James  P. Lash,3 Sahir  Kalim.1 
1Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA; 2Cedars-Sinai Medical 
Center, Los Angeles, CA; 3University of Illinois Chicago, Chicago, IL .
Background: HbA1c is widely used to estimate glycemia, yet it is less reliable in 
patients with CKD. There is growing interest in complementary use of glycated albumin 
(GA) to improve glycemic monitoring and risk stratification in this population. However, whether GA associates with long-term clinical outcomes in a non-dialysis dependent CKD population has not been investigated.
Methods: To determine the prognostic value of GA, we measured baseline serum 
GA levels in 3110 patients with CKD stages 2–4 enrolled in the prospective Chronic Renal Insufficiency Cohort study. Outcomes include 1) incident ESKD (requiring chronic dialysis or kidney transplant); 2) CVD events (a composite of myocardial infarction, congestive heart failure or stroke); and 3) all-cause mortality.



Improving Clinical Outcomes in Diabetic Kidney Disease
Key: TH - Thursday; FR - Friday; SA - Saturday; OR - Oral; PO - Poster; PUB - Publication Only
Underline represents presenting author.
16
J Am Soc Nephrol 34: 2023Oral Abstract/Thursday
Results: Participant characteristics included mean age 59 (SD 10.8) years; 1357 
(43.6%) female; 1550 (49.8%) with diabetes. The median GA was 18.7 (interquartile 
range, 15.8-23.3)%. During an average 7.9-year follow-up, there were 980 ESKD events, 968 CVD events, and 1084 deaths. In multivariable adjusted Cox models, higher GA levels were associated with greater risks of all outcomes in patients with CKD, regardless of diabetes status (Fig 1): hazard ratios for ESKD, CVD, and death among participants with the highest quartile compared with quartile 2 (reference) were 1.42 (95% CI, 1.19-1.69), 1.67 (CI, 1.39-2.01), and 1.63 (CI, 1.37-1.94), respectively. The associations with CVD and death appeared J-shaped, with increased risk also seen at the lowest GA levels (quartile 1 vs. reference). Among patients with coexisting CKD and diabetes, the associations of GA with outcomes remained statistically significant even after adjustment for HbA
1c. For each outcome, we observed a significant fraction of new prognostic 
information when both GA and HbA1c were added to models.
Conclusions: Among patients with CKD, GA levels were independently associated 
with risks of ESKD, CVD, and mortality, regardless of diabetes status. GA added prognostic value to HbA
1c among patients with coexisting CKD and diabetes.
Funding: NIDDK Support, Private Foundation Support
Fig 1. Adjusted HRs for GA Levels and Risks of ESKD, CVD and Death.
TH-OR52  Oral Abstract  Thursday
Improving Clinical Outcomes in Diabetic Kidney Disease
Harnessing Kidney Transcriptome Profiles to Predict Rapid Progression 
of Diabetic Kidney DiseaseDianne
 
Acoba,1,2 Anna  Levin,3 Anna  W itasp,3 Johan  C. Mölne,4 Peter  J. Greasley,1 
Jenny
 
C.
 
Nystrom,5 Annika  W ernerson,3 Anna  Reznichenko.1 1Research and 
Early Development, Cardiovascular, Renal and Metabolism, BioPharmaceuticals R&D, AstraZeneca, Gothenburg, Sweden; 
2Université Paris Cité, INSERM 
U1151, Institut Necker Enfants Malades (INEM), Paris, France; 3Department of 
Clinical Science, Intervention and Technology, Division of Renal Medicine, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden; 
4Department of Laboratory Medicine, 
Institute of Biomedicine, Sahlgrenska Academy, University of Gothenburg, Gothenburg, Sweden; 
5Department of Physiology, Institute of Neuroscience  
and Physiology, Sahlgrenska Academy, University of Gothenburg,  
Gothenburg, Sweden.
Background: Kidney gene expression has been shown to be associated with kidney 
function in diabetic kidney disease (DKD) patients by cross-sectional transcriptomics 
studies. However, how the renal transcriptome correlates to disease progression has not been established due to the paucity of longitudinal studies. We hypothesized that certain intra-kidney transcriptomic patterns associated with progressive DKD may elucidate disease drivers and predictive factors.
Methods: RNA-seq data from micro-dissected kidney biopsies and post-biopsy 
clinical data were available for 19 DKD patients. Patients were stratified into rapid and non-rapid progressors based on the following: eGFR decline more than ≤ -5 ml/min/year, 
CKD stage advancement, ≥30% UACR increase, nephrotic range albuminuria, and a 
composite outcome of kidney failure/ ≥40% eGFR loss. Gene signatures associated with 
rapid DKD progression were identified by differential expression (DEA), weighted gene co-expression network (WGCNA) and pathway enrichment analyses.
Results: We identified 265 statistically significant (Padj < 0.05) rapid progression-
associated genes in the glomerular and tubulointerstitial compartments across all disease progression definitions through DEA. With WGCNA, 1 module in the glomeruli and 7 in the tubulointerstitium were found to be significantly correlated to eGFR slope (P < 0.05). The rapid progression-associated genes in the glomeruli were enriched for pathways linked to cell adhesion by integrins and syndecans, and signaling by NOTCH, MET and PTK2. Pathways involved in cellular response to starvation mediated by GCN2 and mTORC, SLIT signaling through ROBO receptors, and cytoskeletal reorganization were enriched in the tubulointerstitium. These pathways are less studied in the context of DKD progression and could elucidate novel disease understanding.
Conclusions: To the best of our knowledge, this study is the first to link baseline 
kidney compartment-specific gene expression to prospective DKD progression. We have identified transcriptomic profiles prognostic of rapid DKD progression that were distinct from those previously reported as associated with cross-sectional kidney function. Potentially, our findings can advance the understanding of DKD biology and steer towards discovery of prognostic biomarkers and therapeutic targets.
Funding: Government Support - Non-U.S.TH-OR53  Oral Abstract  Thursday
Improving Clinical Outcomes in Diabetic Kidney Disease
FIGARO-BM, a Biomarker Study of FIGARO-DKD, Reveals New 
Insights into the Mode of Action of FinerenoneMario
 
Berger,1 Lydia  J. Christopher,2 Laura  Goea,1 Peter  Kolkhof,1 
Aidan
 
Macnamara,1 Richard  Nkulikiyinka,1 Andrea  Scalise,3 Adam  Skubala,1 
Sebastian
 V
oss,4 Katja  Rohwedder,5 Joachim  H. Ix,6 Faiez  Zannad,7 
Peter
 
Rossing,8 Hiddo  J. Heerspink.9 1Bayer AG, Pharmaceuticals, R&D, 
Wuppertal/Berlin, Germany; 2Bayer UK, Cardiology, Reading, United 
Kingdom; 3Bayer Hispania SL, Pharmaceutical Development, Barcelona, 
Spain; 4CHRESTOS Concept GmbH & Co. KG, Essen, Germany; 5Bayer AG, 
Pharmaceuticals, Medical Affairs, Berlin, Germany; 6UCSD, Department of 
Medicine, San Diego, CA; 7Université de Lorraine, Nancy, France; 8Steno 
Diabetes Center Copenhagen, Herlev, and University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark; 
9University Medical Center Groningen, Department 
of Clinical Pharmacy and Pharmacology, Groningen, Netherlands .
Background: Mineralocorticoid receptor (MR) overactivation contributes to 
tissue fibrosis and organ damage found in cardiorenal disease. FIGARO-BM is an 
exploratory biomarker study aimed at advancing the understanding of the longitudinal pharmacodynamic response to finerenone, a non-steroidal, selective MR antagonist.
Methods: Samples were derived from the phase III parent trial FIGARO-DKD, 
which investigated finerenone’s efficacy on cardiorenal outcomes and safety in CKD patients with type 2 diabetes (T2D). This biomarker substudy included 945 subjects from 21 countries, overall comparable to the total population, and analyzed 2941 biomarkers in more than 4000 longitudinal post-randomization plasma samples using Olink EXPLORE proteomics. Subjects on treatment with either placebo or finerenone for at least  
36 months, and alive to consent, were eligible to participate in FIGARO-BM. Biomarkers with a significant difference (p≤0.05) between treatment arms at more than one study visit (month 4, 12, 24, 36 and 48, based on a linear mixed model adjusted for gender) and with effect estimates above threshold were used for gene enrichment analysis using Metascape. Enriched terms were grouped into clusters based on membership similarities.
Results: 373 plasma protein biomarkers were modulated by finerenone treatment. 
Gene enrichment of the biomarker profile identified two clusters of extracellular matrix (ECM)-related pathways, involving several well-established markers of inflammation and fibrosis such as fibronectin, osteopontin, and members of the interleukin-17 family, along with novel markers of ECM remodeling. Other clusters linked directly to mineralocorticoid/aldosterone biology and diuresis reflecting tar get modulation.
Conclusions: For the first time, FIGARO-BM provides human biomarker evidence 
that finerenone acts on inflammation and fibrosis pathways, one key driver of cardiorenal disease progression in T2D. The study supports preclinical findings from animal models and provides insights to mechanisms leading to clinical benefits in a broad cardiorenal patient population. Future studies are needed to validate these findings.
Funding: Commercial Support - The study and this analysis were funded by Bayer 
AG, Wuppertal, Germany.
TH-OR54  Oral Abstract  Thursday
Improving Clinical Outcomes in Diabetic Kidney Disease
Renal Effects of Empagliflozin Alone or in Combination with Semaglutide 
in Albuminuric Type 2 Diabetes: A Randomized, Placebo-Controlled TrialFrederik
 
Persson,1 Suvanjaa  Sivalingam,1 Victor  W asehuus,1 Viktor  Rotbain 
Curovic,1 Tine  Hansen,1 Peter  Rossing.1,2 1Steno Diabetes Center 
Copenhagen, Herlev, Denmark; 2Kobenhavns Universitet, Kobenhavn, 
Denmark.
Background: Different mechanisms of sodium-glucose cotransporter-2 (SGLT2) 
inhibitors and glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor (GLP-1) agonists indicate that combination 
therapy may have additive or synergistic effects. We investigated if combined treatment with empagliflozin (SGLT2) and semaglutide (GLP-1RA) can reduce urinary albumin creatinine ratio (UACR) compared to treatment with empagliflozin alone in individuals with type 2 diabetes and albuminuria.
Methods: Randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind, parallel study including 
individuals with type 2 diabetes and albuminuria. All initiated open label empagliflozin in a run-in period of 26 weeks. Subsequently, they were randomized to subcutaneous injections of semaglutide or placebo for 26 weeks. Primary endpoint was change in UACR. Secondary endpoints were change in (1) HbA
1c; (2) body weight; (3) measured 
glomerular filtration rate (GFR); and (4) 24-hour systolic blood pressure.
Results: A total of 60 participants on empagliflozin were randomly assigned to 
additional semaglutide (n=30) or placebo (n=30). Mean age was 70.1 (SD 8.0) years, 22 % were female and median UACR was 128.2 [IQR 78.5-285.3] mg/g. Mean UACR change from randomization to week 52 was -15.5 ((95 % CI -34.0 to 8.0) %, p=0.17) in the semaglutide group and 14.8 ((-11.8 to 49.4) %, p=0.29) in the placebo group with a 
mean difference of -26.4 ((-48.2 to 4.6) %; p=0.086). The mean change in HbA
1c was -9.4 
((-13.5 to -5.2) mmol/mol, p<0.001) in the semaglutide group and -0.6 (-4.4 to 3.3) mmol/
mol, p=0.77) in the placebo group with a significant difference between groups (mean difference: -8.8 (-14.3 to -3.3) mmol/mol, p=0.002). No difference between treatment groups in body weight (p=0.28), measured GFR (p=0.33) or 24-hour systolic blood pressure (p=0.26) was observed.
Conclusions: This randomized clinical trial could not demonstrate a significant effect 
of combined treatment with empagliflozin and semaglutide compared to empagliflozin alone on UACR, measured GFR, 24-hour systolic blood pressure or body weight in participants with type 2 diabetes and albuminuria. The combined treatment significantly improved glycemic control compared to treatment with empagliflozin alone.
Funding: Private Foundation Support



Improving Clinical Outcomes in Diabetic Kidney Disease
Key: TH - Thursday; FR - Friday; SA - Saturday; OR - Oral; PO - Poster; PUB - Publication Only
Underline represents presenting author.
17
J Am Soc Nephrol 34: 2023Oral Abstract/Thursday
TH-OR55  Oral Abstract  Thursday
Improving Clinical Outcomes in Diabetic Kidney Disease
Effects of Canagliflozin on Renal Oxygenation Evaluated Using Blood 
Oxygenation Level-Dependent MRI in Patients with Type 2 DiabetesKatsuhito
 
Mori,1 Tsutomu  Inoue,2 Yuri  Machiba,1 Shinya  Nakatani,1 
Hideki
 
Uedono,1 Masahiro  Ishikawa,2 Satsuki  Taniuchi,1 Akira  Y amamoto,1 
Naoki
 
Kobayashi,2 Eito  Kozawa,2 Taro  Shimono,1 Yukio  Miki,1 
Hirokazu
 
Okada,2 Masanori  Emoto.1 1Osaka Metropolitan University 
Graduate School of Medicine, Osaka, Japan; 2Saitama Medical University, 
Saitama, Japan.
Background: Results obtained in recent clinical trials suggest that SGLT2 inhibitors 
have protective effects against diabetic and chronic kidney disease, though the precise 
mechanisms remain largely unknown. Since the kidneys are susceptible to hypoxic damage, we hypothesized that use of an SGLT2 inhibitor improves renal oxygenation.
Methods: The effects of canagliflozin on renal oxygenation in patients with type  
2 diabetes (T2D) were examined using blood oxygenation level-dependent (BOLD) MRI. Based on a method previously reported, T2* maps were generated, then primary analysis of cortical T2* values was performed using the 12-layer concentric objects (TLCO) method, while cortical oxygenation was also evaluated based on region of interest (ROI) method. The primary endpoints were change in T2* value from before (Day 0) to after the initial treatment (Day 1, about two hours after initial single dose) and also after five consecutive canagliflozin treatments (Day 5).
Results: Fourteen patients with T2D were enrolled, with median age 65.5 
(interquartile range 59.0-72.0) years, body mass index 24.2 (22.3-26.7) kg/m
2, HbA1c 
7.1% (6.9-7.7%), estimated glomerular filtration rate 59.2 (46.9-76.8) mL/min/1.73 m2, 
and urinary albumin creatine ratio 20.5 (5.7-468.7) mg/gCr. Results with the TLCO method showed that canagliflozin treatment did not cause a significant change in T2* (mean and 95% confidential interval) from Day 0 [54.1 (51.4-56.9)] to Day 1 [55.2 (52.5-58.0)] (p=0.336) and also to Day 5 [53.4 (50.7-56.2)] (p=0.519). On the other hand, the T2* value was significantly increased from 52.8 (50.6-55.0) to 54.5 (52.3-56.9) (p=0.031) on Day 1, while no significant change from Day 0 to Day 5 [53.7 (51.5-56.0) (p=0.241)] was found with use of the ROI method.
Conclusions: The present findings indicate that canagliflozin administration may 
improve renal cortical oxygenation in patients with T2D.
Funding: Commercial Support - Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Corporation
TH-OR56  Oral Abstract  Thursday
Improving Clinical Outcomes in Diabetic Kidney Disease
Insulin Resistance, Kidney Outcomes, and Effects of the Endothelin 
Receptor Antagonist Atrasentan in Patients with Type 2 Diabetes and CKDJohannes
 
D.
 
Smeijer ,1 Donald  E. Kohan,2 Peter  Rossing,3 Ricardo  Correa-Rotter,4 
Adrian
 
Liew,5,6 Sydney  C. T ang,7 Dick  de Zeeuw,1 Ron T .  Gansevoort,1 
Wenjun
 
Ju,8 Hiddo  J. Heerspink.1,6 1Universitair Medisch Centrum Groningen, 
Groningen, Netherlands; 2University of Utah Health, Salt Lake City, UT; 3Steno 
Diabetes Center Copenhagen, Herlev, Denmark; 4Instituto Nacional de Ciencias 
Medicas y Nutricion Salvador Zubiran, Ciudad de Mexico, Mexico; 5Mount 
Elizabeth Hospital, Singapore, Singapore; 6The George Institute for Global 
Health, Newtown, NSW, Australia; 7The University of Hong Kong Li Ka Shing 
Faculty of Medicine, Hong Kong, Hong Kong; 8University of Michigan, Ann 
Arbor, MI.
Background: Insulin resistance (IR) is a pathophysiologic hallmark of type 2 diabetes 
mellitus (T2DM) and associated with chronic kidney disease (CKD). Experimental 
studies suggest that endothelin-1 increases IR. We assessed the association between IR and cardio-renal outcomes and the effect of the selective endothelin receptor antagonist atrasentan on IR in patients with T2DM and CKD.
Methods: We used data from the RADAR and SONAR trials that recruited participants 
with T2DM and CKD [eGFR 25–75 mL/min/1.73 m2, urine albumin-to-creatinine ratio of 300–5000 mg/g]. IR was calculated using the homeostatic model assessment (HOMA-IR). The association between HOMA-IR and the pre-specified cardio-renal outcomes was assessed using multivariable Cox proportional hazards regression, and effects of atrasentan on HOMA-IR by a linear mixed effect model.
Results: In the SONAR trial, each log-unit increase in HOMA-IR was associated 
with an increased risk of the composite cardio-renal outcome [hazard ratio 1.32 (95%CI 1.09,1.60; p=0.004)], kidney outcome [hazard ratio 1.30 (95%CI 1.00,1.68; p-value = 0.048)], and the kidney or all-cause mortality outcome [hazard ratio 1.25 (95%CI 1.01,1.55; p-value = 0.037)]. After 12 weeks’ treatment in the RADAR trial (N=123), atrasentan reduced HOMA-IR compared to placebo [0.75 mg/d 19.1% (95%CI -17.4, 44.3) and 1.25 mg/d 26.7% (95%CI -6.4, 49.5)]. In the SONAR trial (N=1914), long-term treatment with atrasentan 0.75 mg/day compared to placebo reduced HOMA-IR by 9.6% (95%CI 0.6, 17.9).
Conclusions: More severe IR is associated with increased risk of cardio-renal and 
mortality outcomes. The endothelin receptor antagonist atrasentan reduced IR, which may translate into clinical kidney benefits.
Atrasentan reduces insulin resistance. Panel A: Change from baseline in HOMA-IR in the RADAR trial. Panel B: Geometric mean HOMA-IR values per study visit in the SONAR trial.
TH-OR57  Oral Abstract  Thursday
Improving Clinical Outcomes in Diabetic Kidney Disease
Single-Nephron Dynamics in Patients with Overt Diabetic Nephropathy
Akane
 
Miura, Masahiro
 
Okabe, Takaya
 
Sasaki, Yusuke
 
Okabayashi, 
Kotaro
 
Haruhara, Nobuo
 T
suboi, Takashi
 Y
okoo. Division of Nephrology and 
Hypertension, Department of Internal Medicine, The Jikei University School of Medicine, Tokyo, Japan.
Background: In diabetic nephropathy (DN), total glomerular hyperfiltration is 
observed from early stage of the disease, and glomerular filtration rate (GFR) decreases 
with a marked increase in albuminuria, leading to renal failure. In the clinical course of such overt DN, the single-nephron GFR (SNGFR) is thought to be dysregulated with a decrease in the number of functioning nephrons. However, the single-nephron dynamics has not been studied in human DN due to technical difficulties. We applied novel methodology to explore single-nephron dynamics in DN.
Methods: The number of non-globally sclerotic glomeruli (N
NSG) per kidney was 
estimated using cortical volume assessment via unenhanced computed tomography and biopsy-based stereology. Mean glomerular volume (MGV) was calculated from the measured area of glomerular tufts. SNGFR and single-nephron urinary protein excretion (SNUPE) was calculated by dividing estimated GFR and UPE by the total number of N
NSG 
per body (per kidney x 2). Single-nephron parameters (MGV , SNGFR and SNUPE) were compared among CKD stages.
Results: This study included 86 patients with DN evaluated at kidney biopsy (median 
age 55 [quartile 46-67] years, 84% male, HbA1c 6.6 [5.9-7.3] %, 53% with nephrotic syndrome, and 64% on renin-angiotensin-system inhibitors prebiopsy). CKD stage were 16% CKD1+2, 28% CKD3a, 25% CKD3b, 19% CKD4, and 12% CKD5. With advancing CKD stage, sclerotic glomerular lesions increased, whereas N
NSG decreased from median 
780,900 to 251,200 per kidney. In contrast to the higher MGV and elevated SNUPE, SNGFR was markedly decreased in patients with advanced CKD ( Figure 1).
Conclusions: Despite residual glomerular hypertrophy, the progressive decrease in 
SNGFR with decreased number of functioning nephrons in advanced stage DN suggests glomerular filtration failure due to progressive glomerulosclerotic lesions and reduced filtration surface.
TH-OR58  Oral Abstract  Thursday
Improving Clinical Outcomes in Diabetic Kidney Disease
Implementation of a Kidney Screening Intervention to Improve Early 
CKD Detection in Type 2 Diabetes (T2D)Margaret
 
Spolnik,1 Binu  Sharma,2 Michael  R. Ellwood,2 Jennie  Z. Ma,2 
Jason
 A.
 
Lyman,2 Julia  J. Scialla.2 1Indiana University School of Medicine, 
Indianapolis, IN; 2UVA Health, Charlottesville, VA.
Background: American Diabetes Association and KDIGO guidelines recommend 
annual screening with UACR and eGFR in patients with T2D. To improve screening, 
we implemented clinical decision support (CDS) in April 2022 at University of Virginia Health System (UV A), including: (1) auto-enrollment of primary care patients with T2D in the EPIC health maintenance plan; and (2) prompting one-click ordering of the Kidney Profile (KP; panel including UACR and eGFR) or UACR alone, as needed, to satisfy screening.



JAm Soc Nephrol 34: 2023
 Improving Clinical Outcomes in Diabetic Kidney Disease
 Oral Abstract Thursday
 Methods:
 We assessed effectiveness of the CDS by comparing screening
 across
 Results for 52 week Delta's
 3 periods (pre-COVID control: Jan 2019-Feb 2020; post-COVID control: Mar 2021- Apr
 2022; post-CDS: May 2022
 Oct 2022) for all non-acute office, nursing and telehealth
 miR-378d
 encounters in UVA primary
 care
 for T2D patients aged 222 years.
 Encounters with
 coded diagnosis of CKD in the prior 4 yrs Or fully screened for CKD in past 365 days
 were excluded. Orders for UACR
 within 30 days constituted screening  Rates
 miR-324-3p
 were
 aggregated by calendar months and compared via interrupted time series. Sensitivity
 analyses included all primary care encounters
 this period.
 Results: There were 59,147 encounters (24.242 pre-COVID control; 23,413
 post-
 miR-22-3p
 COVID control;
 11.492
 post-CDS):
 The  screening
 trend in both control periods
 was
 miR-6722-3p
 similar; therefore only the post-COVID control was considered further: Demographics;
 1
 miR-1287-5p
 miR-378a-3p
 P-0.05
 encounter types
 and clinic distribution were similar in the control and post-CDS
 periods.
 TIR-339-5p
 There
 was no immediate impact 0n screening (p-0.4), but screening accelerated post-
 miR-6887-Sp
 miR-658
 intervention (p0.003, Figure). Results were similar if all primary care encounters were
 miR-1207-5p
 included
 inclusive of acute visits).
 Conclusions: Roll out of CDS coincided with acceleration of the screening rate for
 miR-3781
 CKD
 adult patients with T2D. These results suggest that simple CDS
 be an
 effective intervention to promote annual CKD
 screening:
 miR-197-5p
 Funding: Other U.S.
 Government
 Support
 mR-5a9iR-328-3p
 MiR-4447
 ~MR-{7iRe,85-6p
 Ma COr
 DO
 0
 -0.5
 0.0
 0.5
 LogFC(DulaglutidelGlargine)
 TH-OR6O
 Earlier Intervention in Diabetic Kidney Disease Management
 the
 In Vitro Diagnostic Test PromarkerD Shows Economic Health Benefits
 over Current Standard of Care
 Screening rates by month pre/post intervention. Blue line depicts the control rate of
 Kirsten EPeters, Gareth C. Fernandez, Lianzhi Chen, Li
 Kam
 screening: Red line depicts observed screening after the intervention:
 Pearl
 Richard Lipscombe. Proteomics International, Perth, WA,
 Australia.
 TH-OR59
 Background: Diabetic
 disease (DKD) is present in
 in 3 people with type
 2 diabetes
 T2D) and is the leading cause of end-stage renal disease (ESRD). PromarkerD
 Effects of GLP-I Receptor Agonist Dulaglutide on Profile of Circulating
 newly developed biomarker-based blood test
 predicts risk of DKD in people with
 miRNAs Associated with ESKD in Type 2 Diabetes
 TZD
 Recent studies have shown the clinical benefit of early intervention with sodium
 Eiichiro Satake
 Brandon E. McFarlin;? Sok Cin Tye,' Joseph Ricca,
 Kevin L
 glucose cotransporter-2 inhibitors (SGLT2s) in DKD management for patients with no
 Duffin;
 Andrzej S. Krolewski.
 'Joslin Diabetes Center; Boston, MA; -Eli Lilly
 early-stage
 disease. This study aimed to assess the consequent economic health
 and
 IN.
 benefit of earlier introduction of SGLTZs resulting from
 proactive testing regime using
 Company; Indianapolis,
 the PromarkerD test versus current standard of care (SoC):
 Background: Glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-I) receptor agonists have been shown
 Methods: A ten-year model was developed according to the International Society of
 to slow
 function decline in patients with type 2 diabetes (T2D); but the underlying
 Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes Research (ISPOR)
 guidelines to evaluate potential
 mechanism remains   unclear:
 Circulating microRNAs (miRNAs) are short non-coding
 net
 savings from introducing PromarkerD
 versus SoC in a hypothetical cohort of
 RNA molecules known to
 regulate proteins. Previously, we identified 17 plasma miRNAs
 million people with TZD. Model inputs included costs and frequency of
 costs
 risk and 9 protective) that were predictive of end-stage kidney disease (ESKD) in TZD
 associated with initiation of SGLTZs_
 and cost-savings from slowed DKD progression and
 patients
 Satake et al. JASN 2022). In this study; we investigated the treatment effect of
 averted renal replacement therapy for ESRD (dialysis and kidney transplants).
 the GLP-] receptor
 'agonist; Dulaglutide on longitudinal changes in plasma concentrations
 Results:
 PromarkerD
 could produce net savings for US payers
 exceeding
 of these miRNAs in patients enrolled in the AWARD-7 trial.
 S10 billion USD
 per
 one
 million people with T2D
 over the
 ten-year time horizon:
 Methods: Plasma  samples
 were
 obtained from TZD patients with chronic
 the baseline
 case, the
 total annual
 savings  equal the
 costs   after
 four years.
 Savings
 disease (CKD) stages 3-4 who received Dulaglutide 1.5 mg (n-29)
 insulin Glargine
 increase exponentially in subsequent years, significantly outweighing the associated costs
 (n=31) for 52
 weeks.
 Using the HTG edgeSeq platform;
 we
 measured  17
 ESKD-
 compared to the current SoC without PromarkerD
 The breakeven
 occurs
 associated miRNAs at baseline and 52 weeks. Fold change (FC) values were calculated
 after six years
 after which the total savings are
 than the total costs_
 Significant
 for each patient and each miRNA by
 dividing the concentration of miRNA at 52 weeks
 savings arise from slowing the progression of DKD
 costs from the use of SGLT2s
 by its concentration at baseline_
 and cost of PromarkerD
 over 10 years_
 Results:
 Comparing the FC
 values between
 Dulaglutide and Glargine groups,
 we
 Conclusions: Earlier intervention with SGLTZs following implementation of the
 observed that the plasma concentration of protective miRNAs (in blue) increased during
 PromarkerD
 test could result in substantial  savings to US payers in the management
 Dulaglutide treatment; and 5 of them (miR-378d,
 -324-3p.-22-3p,-378a-3p and -339-Sp)
 of DKD. PromarkerD testing would enable earlier intervention for those at high risk of
 showed
 statistically significant increases (P<0.0S) The plasma concentrations of all risk
 DKD, before progression to more costly later stage disease requiring renal replacement
 miRNAs (in red)
 were
 reduced with Dulaglutide treatment; but only the reduction of miR-
 therapy;
 as well as reduce unnecessary treatment in those at low risk.
 6722-3p reached statistical significance (Figure).
 Funding: Commercial Support
 Proteomics International
 Conclusions: Treatment of T2D patients
 with  stage
 3-4 CKD with Dulaglutide
 altered the
 profile of circulating miRNAs associated with ESKD, resulting in increased
 TH-OR6I
 concentrations of protective miRNAs and decreased concentrations of risk miRNA in
 circulation.
 ApoA4 Mutations Cause Autosomal Dominant Tubulointerstitial Kidney
 Funding: NIDDK Support
 Disease with Medullary Amyloidosis
 Anthony L Bleyer; ' 2 Tereza Kmochova
 Martina Zivna;
 Kendrah 0. Kidd,
 Varun Agrawal,
 Michael L. West;' Andrew Orr;
 Nelson Leung;-
 Astrid Weins.
 Helmut G. Rennke_
 Adam P Levine
 Ellen D. Mcphail,4
 Surendra Dasari,
 Jakub Sikora 2 Stanislav Kmoch.24
 Wake Forest University
 School of Medicine, Winston-Salem, NC; 'Univerzita Karlova
 lekarska
 fakulta, Praha, Czechia; 'Dalhousie University Faculty of Medicine, Halifax;
 NS, Canada;
 Mayo Clinic Minnesota, Rochester; MN; ' Harvard Medical
 School, Boston, MA; 'University College London, London, United Kingdom;
 ?University of Vermont Medical Center; Burlington, VT:
 Background: We describe for the
 time mutations
 the APOA4 gene as a cause
 of inherited kidney disease_
 Methods:
 Whole
 genome sequencing
 was
 performed in
 members
 of
 large
 family with autosomal dominant tubulointerstitial
 disease(ADTKD), and
 we then
 screened other ADTKD families in Our registry for mutations in the identified gene.
 TH
 Thursday; FR - Friday; SA - Saturday; OR
 Oral; PO - Poster; PUB
 Publication Only
 Underline represents presenting author:
 18
 testing
 during_
 (e.g 
 among
 may
 Using
 Ying
 Tan;
 kidney
 that
 kidney
 kidney
 testing
 testing;
 testing
 kidney
 testing:
 point
 grealer
 against =
 testing
 first
 in
 kidney
 Key:
 



JAm Soc Nephrol 34: 2023
 Investigations in Polycystic and Tubulointerstitial Kidney Diseases
 Oral Abstract Thursday
 Results: There
 was
 an
 ~15
 shared genomic region
 on chromosome [
 and adult Pkdl-dependent ADPKD
 mouse models through specific apoptosis of
 (chrll:110012896-124998347) with only one relevant candidate variant chrll:116692578
 cells. The endoribonuclease domain of Irela splices an intron from the XBPL mRNA
 G>C (hgl9) encoding for
 missense mutation in APOA4 (NM_000482.4):
 196C>G
 leading to the formation of active XBP] which acts a8 & transcription factor to mitigate
 (p.L66V)   Using
 sequencing
 and
 segregation   analysis;
 we
 genotyped
 19
 ER stress. Here we investigated whether a point mutation in the endoribonuclease domain
 individuals from the family: Of 12 genetically affected individuals (10 genotyped and
 of' Irelalpha
 can
 recapitulate the genetic XBPI inactivation rescue in the
 context of'
 two
 obligate heterozygotes)
 10 had CKD;
 with
 two  females
 yet clinically
 orthologous ADPKD mouse models.
 unaffected. Of nine genetically unaffected, the lowest eGFR was 59 mlmin/ [.73m? at age
 Methods: We generated an in vivo Irelalpha endoribonuclease dead point mutation
 69. Screening families from our ADTKD registry; we identified two other distantly related
 (K9O7A) via CRISPR/Cas9. We crossed the Ire lalpha mutant with Pkdl deficient early
 families with the same variant and two distantly related families with a chrl:116693454
 and adult models and assessed the impact
 on   disease severity via  morphological and
 C>T (hgl9) variant encoding the missense mutation p.D33N:
 AlL 31 clinically affected
 functional parameters. Finally; we examined the effect of XBPL inactivation in bile ducts
 individuals suffered from CKD without proteinuria and a bland sediment and carried their
 in polycystic liver disease models due to polycystin-1 deletion:
 familial pathogenic APOA4 mutation: The
 mean
 age of end-stage
 disease
 was
 Results:
 We confirmed that the K9O7A mutation in the endoribonuclease domain
 72.7+10.2 for the pL66V mutation and 58.2+11.1 for the p.D33N mutation (p0.009).
 of Irelalpha leads to impaired XBPL splicing activity
 as seen Via western
 blotting: We
 In an individual with the pL66V
 mutation, pathologic examination of a nephrectomy
 generated Ire lalpha
 K9O?A
 animals and confirmed homozygous embryonic lethality. We
 specimen
 revealed
 marked   medullary
 amyloid   deposition;
 with   mass-spectrometric
 then used Ire lalpha K9ozA fox animals and crossed them with either Pkd_
 Pkhdl-Cre
 analysis revealing the pL66V ApoA4 protein as the predominant constituent: Four kidney
 (early model) or Pkdl
 floxiflox.
 Pax&-TA; Tet-OCre (adult model) mice to generate experimental
 biopsies containing only cortical tissue revealed no cortical amyloid deposition; while
 Ire lalphaK9ozA fox; Pkd-
 floxtflox .
 Pkhdl-Cre
 K9O?A/flox. Pkd
 flox tflox
 Pax&rTA: Tet-OCre
 another biopsy containing cortex and medulla showed medullary amyloid deposits but no
 mice. The mice showed significantly improved kidney to body weight ratio (KWIBW)
 cortical amyloid deposits_
 In summary; ApoA4 mutations may lead to marked
 medullary
 compared with the Pkdl-SKO
 mice (0.095+0.011
 VS
 0.136+0.022
 #p0.008,
 early
 deposition and ADTKD.
 model; 0.088+0.031
 VS
 0.149+0.043
 *p-0.027, adult model). Finally; when XBPI
 was
 Conclusions: For the first time,
 we
 identified mutations in the APOA4
 gene
 as a
 inactivated concomitantly with Pkdl in bile ducts using Ubc-Cre,
 a dramatic impact on
 cause Of ADTKD. APOA4 mutations result in
 medullary ApoA4 deposition, which can be
 disease severity was observed compared with the single Pkdl KO animals_
 missed on routine
 kidney biopsies that only sample the renal cortex.
 Conclusions:
 Our results   demonstrate that specific inactivation of the Irelalpha
 Funding: Private Foundation Support
 endoribonuclease domain
 upstream of XBP]
 is beneficial in slowing down ADPKD
 progression_
 lalpha endoribonuclease inhibitors may serve aS potential
 starting points
 for development of ADPKD therapeutics
 TH-OR62
 Funding: NIDDK Support, Other U.S.
 Government Support, Private Foundation
 Mesencephalic Astrocyte-Derived Neurotrophic Factor (MANF)
 Support
 Stimulates Autophagy and Restores Mitochondrial Homeostasis to
 Treat Uromodulin-Associated Nephropathy
 TH-OR64
 Chuang Li;
 Yeawon Kim
 Chenjian Gu;
 Yili
 Eric Tycksen;
 Role of ER-Mitochondria Connection in the Pathogenesis of ADPKD
 Anuradhika Puri;
 Terri A. Pietka,
 Jothilingam Sivapackiam;
 Kendrah 0. Kidd; ?
 Sun-Ji Park;' Bryce G. Johnson;
 Stanislav Kmoch; 4 Jeremy S. Duffield_
 Biswajit Padhy Jian Xie, Chou-Long Huang: Huang Lab. University of Iowa
 Carver
 College of Medicine, Iowa
 IA_
 Anthony J. Bleyer;
 Meredith Jackrel,
 Fumihiko Urano, ! Vijay Sharma, "
 Maria Lindahl,
 M. Chen.
 Washington University in St Louis School of
 Background: Mutations in PKDI and PKD2 gene cause ADPKD. One hypothesis
 Medicine, St Louis, MO; ?Wake Forest University School of Medicine,
 states that ADPKD is
 ciliopathy We have recently demonstrated that ER-localized
 Winston-Salem, NC; ' Pfizer Inc; New York; NY;
 'Univerzita Karlova, Praha;
 PC2 is also important in anti-cystogenesis via Kt-Cal+ exchange for ER Cal+ release_
 Czechia;
 'Washington University in St Louis, St Louis, MO; 'Helsingin yliopisto,
 Metabolic reprogramming and mitochondrial dysfunction are important in pathogenesis
 Helsinki, Finland; 'Prime Medicine, Cambridge, MA.
 of' ADPKD_
 Mitochondrial (Mito) translocation of the C-terminal tail of PCI (CTT)
 is   believed   important:
 How PC2
 regulates
 Mito   fiunction
 unknown:
 3    potential
 Background:
 Autosomal
 dominant
 tubulointerstitial   kidney
 disease
 due
 mechanisms underlie
 regulation of Mito by PC2-mediated ER
 Caz+ release: direct ER-
 uromodulin mutations
 (ADTKD-UMOD),
 leading hereditary kidney disease
 has
 no
 Mito Cal+ transfer at mitochondria-associated ER membranes (MAMs) to regulate TCA
 targeted therapies_
 UMOD is expressed in the thick
 ascending limb (TAL) tubules_
 and
 enzyme
 and
 cytosolic Ca?- regulation of PGCla (via CaMKII) and PPARa (via myc and
 p.H177_Rl8Sdel in-frame deletion is the most prevalent human mutation.
 miRI7), two master
 regulators of Mito biogenesis
 Methods: CRISPR/Cas9 was utilized to generate an ADTKD-UMOD
 mouse
 model
 Methods: TricB_
 an
 ER-restricted K
 channel mediates Kt-Ca?- exchange for Ca?
 carrying Umod p.Y178_RlS6del, analogous to human Hl77_Rl8Sdel.
 To
 assess
 the
 release as an experimental tool for role of ER-localized PC2.
 Oxygen consumption rate
 functional
 role  of  mesencephalic   astrocyte-derived   neurotrophic
 factor   (MANF)
 (OCR) for Mito function and transmission EM
 TEM) for Mito
 morphology:
 ADTKD, inducible
 tubular  cell-specific MANF
 transgenic and TAL-specific MANF
 Results: Mito DNA mass, PPARa, PGCla; mitofusin-2 were downregulated while
 knockout
 mice
 were
 generated   Meanwhile,  stable HEK  cell line harboring WT
 myc and miR-17 were
 upregulated in both Pkd[ - and Pkd2-cKO
 OCR decreased
 HI77_RISSdel
 was   established.
 RNA   sequencing
 was
 performed
 on   isolated
 TAL
 in proximal tubules isolated from both Pkdl- and Pkd2-cKO
 kidneys. TEM revealed ER
 cells. Immunoblot; q-PCR
 immunofluorescence
 staining and electron microscopy were
 in close contact with Mito forming MAMs. About 25% ER membrane
 and 60% Mito
 employed. Mitochondria function was assessed by Oroboros high resolution respirometry
 membrane form MAMs_
 Mito morphology (area;
 cristae
 density; roundness,
 etc)
 were
 and mitochondrial ROS
 was monitored by 68Ga-Galuminox PETICT in live animals for
 altered in Pkd2-cKO kidneys.
 MAM distance was increased in Pkd2-cKO. indicating
 the first time_
 reduced ER-Mito contact: In many parameters measured, changes occurred in pre-cystic
 Results: Mutant TALs exhibit impaired autophagy/mitophagy
 and mitochondrial
 as well
 cystic stage_
 In all above, the changes by cKO were reversed at least partially by
 dysfunction   Subsequently, mitochondrial  DNA leaking to cytosol leads
 to activation
 transgenic expression of TricB, indicating PC2-dependent ER Ca"+ release is important.
 of stimulator of interferon genes (STING) signaling; inflammation and renal  fibrosis
 To   further
 demonstrate
 convergence  of PCI
 and
 PC2   function   in
 ER
 transgenic
 in Umod Y178-RS6del mice
 MANF;
 a novel
 endoplasmic reticulum
 stress
 ~regulated
 TricB
 expression
 reversed
 cystogenesis in Pkdl-cKO mice.
 Interestingly; PCI-CTT
 secreted protein;
 is   induced
 the
 mutant TALs_
 Genetic ablation of MANF in
 the
 translocation to Mito decreased in Pkd2-cKO, which
 was reversed
 by TricB expression:
 mutant TALS
 worsens
 autophagy
 and  mitochondrial
 failure
 and
 exacerbates   kidney
 Conclusions: Both PCT
 and PC2
 deficiency result in mitochondrial dysfunction:
 fibrosis
 Most importantly, inducible tubular overexpression of MANF
 after the
 onset
 TricB is not in cilia nor Mito; complementation of the
 deficiency by TricB supports an
 of disease   stimulates   autophagy/mitophagy
 and kidney clearance
 of' mutant UMOD
 important role for ER Ca"+ homeostasis. ER-mitochondria connection is a downstream
 well
 as promotes  mitochondrial
 biogenesis
 and oxidative phosphorylation through
 effector for PCI and PC2 convergence and plays
 important role in anti-cystogenesis
 p-AMPK
 and
 downstream FOXO3
 and PGCla
 enhancement.
 Consequently;
 tubular
 of PCs_
 MANF overexpression suppresses STING-mediated inflammation and fibrosis, thereby
 NIDDK Support
 improving
 function_
 Conclusions: For the first time,
 we discover that MANF,
 as a novel
 biotherapeutic
 TH-OR65
 protein,
 can
 regulate organelle homeostasis and treat ADTKD
 which
 may have broad
 therapeutic applications to treat various protein
 misfolding diseases_
 Organoid Xenograft Model of Polycystic Kidney Disease Reveals
 Funding: NIDDK   Support; Other U.S
 Government
 Support, Private Foundation
 Context-Dependent Cross-Talk Between Primary Cilium and Autophagy
 Support
 in Cystogenesis
 Yun Xia, Meng Liu, Angelysia Cardilla, Tian Zhang, Mihir Y Naik. Nanyang
 TH-OR63
 Technological University; Singapore, Singapore.
 Inactivation of Irelalpha Endoribonuclease Domain Slows Down
 Background: In the past few years, organoid models have been developed to study
 ADPKD in
 Orthologous Mouse Models
 polycystic
 disease (PKD), including those derived from human pluripotent stem
 Rishi Bhardwai ' Isabel Volpe,' Duygu Elif Yilmaz;? Carlotta Pioppini;?
 cells (PSC)
 and adult kidney tissue.
 Despite successful recapitulation of tubular cyst
 Kasturi Roy,' Michael Rehman ' Yiqiang Cai_
 Matteus Krappitz;
 formation in vitro, most
 organoid models of PKD rely on stress stimulation to demonstrate
 Stefan Somlo,
 Sorin V. Fedeles.
 'Yale School of Medicine, New Haven, CT;
 disease phenotypes
 possibly due to the lack of native tissue microenvironment: Novel
 ~Charite Universitatsmedizin Berlin, Berlin, Germany.
 organoid models of PKD need to be developed to reveal the pathogenetic underpinnings
 for human PKD.
 Background: The Irelalpha-XBPI pathway is the most conserved UPR branch from
 Methods: We generated
 organoids from PKD patient induced PSCs (iPSC)
 yeast to mammals_
 Our previous studies (abstract WCN23-2042) showed that
 and gene-corrected iPSCs, followed by engrafting these kidney organoids into the sub-
 inactivation of XBPL leads to significant improvement in disease severity in neonatal
 renal capsule space of immunocompromised
 mice.
 Genetic
 was
 performed in
 TH
 Thursday; FR - Friday; SA - Saturday; OR
 Oral; PO - Poster; PUB
 Publication Only
 Underline represents presenting author:
 19
 megabase
 cystic
 Sanger
 being
 kidney
 (@ox.
 Ire _
 amyloid ,
 cystic
 Ire _
 Fang;
 City;
 Ying
 kidneys:
 Funding:
 kidney
 kidney
 kidney
 genetic
 editing
 Key:
 



Investigations in Polycystic and Tubulointerstitial Kidney Diseases
Key: TH - Thursday; FR - Friday; SA - Saturday; OR - Oral; PO - Poster; PUB - Publication Only
Underline represents presenting author.
20
J Am Soc Nephrol 34: 2023Oral Abstract/Thursday
PKD patient iPSCs to modulate primary cilium-autophagy signaling axis, followed by 
organoid generation and xenotransplantation. The organoid xenografts were recovered four weeks post engraftment for phenotypic assessment and single cell transcriptomic analysis.
Results: PKD patient iPSCs-derived kidney organoids spontaneously developed 
tubular cysts in vivo, whereas gene-corrected organoid xenografts showed an absence of cystogenesis. PKD organoid xenografts showed a myriad of structural and functional abnormalities reminiscent of human PKD. In particular, cellular autophagy was significantly compromised in PKD organoid xenografts. Primary cilium ablation in PKD organoid xenografts inhibited cystogenesis, alongside an upregulation of autophagy. On the contrary, primary cilium ablation in the gene-corrected organoid xenografts induced cystogenesis, in parallel with a significant downregulation of autophagy. Employing the organoid xenograft model of PKD, we evaluated the effect of an FDA-approved drug on cystogenesis in vivo .
Conclusions: The organoid xenograft model of PKD recapitulates spontaneous 
cyst formation in vivo , representing a more sophisticated system for revealing novel 
therapeutic targets and for evaluating the clinical potential of candidate drugs.
Funding: Government Support - Non-U.S.
TH-OR66  Oral Abstract  Thursday
Investigations in Polycystic and Tubulointerstitial Kidney Diseases
Downregulation of O-GlcNAcylation, a Metabolic Regulator, Attenuates 
PKD ProgressionMatthew
 A. Kavanaugh, Dona  G. Isai, Henry  Wang, 
Antonio  Artigues, 
Maria  T. Villar
, Stephen  C. Parnell, Chad  Slawson, Darren  P
. Wallace, 
Pamela  V . Tran. 
University of Kansas School of Medicine, Kansas City, KS.
Background: Altered cell metabolism is an important component of autosomal 
dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD) pathogenesis, but drivers of these 
alterations are not understood. The addition of O-linked b-N-acetylglucosamine (O-GlcNAc) onto protein substrates by O-GlcNAc transferase (OGT) is a nutrient-sensitive post-translational modification that integrates multiple metabolic signals. We have reported that protein O-GlcNAcylation is increased in kidneys of ADPKD patients and PKD mouse models. Thus, we hypothesize that increased O-GlcNAcylation is pathogenic in ADPKD.
Methods: We generated juvenile and adult Pkd1 conditional knockout (cko) and 
Pkd1;Ogt double knockout (dko) mice using the HoxB7-Cre and the doxycycline-inducible Pax8rtTA;LC1-Cre recombinases (induced from 4-6 weeks of age). Juvenile and adult mouse kidneys were analyzed on postnatal day (P)14 and at 4 months of age, respectively. To identify hyper-O-GlcNAcylated proteins in PKD, immunoprecipitation and Western blot were performed on mouse renal tissue extracts. Mass spectrometry is underway to map O-GlcNAcylation sites on identified proteins. To examine mechanisms in human ADPKD, cyst-lining epithelial cells were cultured in a 3D collagen matrix and an OGT inhibitor was tested on in vitro cyst formation.
Results: In juvenile mice, Ogt deletion in Pkd1 cko mice reduced renal cystogenesis 
and kidney weight:body weight ratios (KW/BW); restrained renal cilia lengths; reduced inflammation and fibrosis; increased activation of the energy sensor AMPK; and improved kidney function. Further, while Pkd1 cko mice die between P14-P20, Pkd1;Ogt dko mice 
continue to thrive beyond 14 weeks of age. Additionally, AMPK was found to be hyper-O-GlcNAcylated at P14 in Pkd1 cko kidneys. Similarly, in adult mice, deletion of Ogt in 
Pkd1 cko mice reduced renal cystogenesis and KW/BW. Finally, OGT inhibition reduced in vitro cyst formation by cultured human ADPKD cells.
Conclusions: In PKD, protein O-GlcNAcylation, including of AMPK, is increased, 
and deletion or inhibition of OGT reduces cyst growth and disease severity, demonstrating that O-GlcNAcylation is an important driver of PKD progression. We propose that targeting O-GlcNAcylation may have therapeutic potential in ADPKD.
Funding: Other U.S. Government Support
TH-OR67  Oral Abstract  Thursday
Investigations in Polycystic and Tubulointerstitial Kidney Diseases
Ciliary Exclusion of ARL13B or Loss of Its GEF Activity for ARL3 
Suppresses Polycystic Kidney Disease in MiceRobert
 E. Van Sciver , T
amara  Caspary. Emory University School of Medicine, 
Atlanta, GA .
Background: Polycystic kidney disease (PKD) and primary cilia are intricately 
linked. Mutations in PKD1 and PKD2, which encode for ciliary polycystin proteins, are 
the most common genetic causes of PKD. Mouse models predict the presence of a cilia-
dependent cyst activating (CDCA) pathway that functions in cilia to drive cystogenesis in mouse models of PKD. This CDCA pathway is normally inhibited by the polycystin proteins, yet the ciliary driver(s) of cyst pathogenesis remain unknown. ARL13B is an atypical ciliary GTPase which also possesses guanine nucleotide exchange factor (GEF) activity for another ARL family GTPase, ARL3. Recent work revealed a central role of ARL13B’s cilia localization in cystogenesis, yet its role in the CDCA pathway is unknown.
Methods: To directly test ARL13B’s role in the CDCA pathway, we engineered two 
distinct Arl13b mutant alleles at the endogenous locus in mice: (1) Arl13b
V358A, which 
mutates a single amino acid in ARL13B’s cilia-localization motif; and (2) Arl13bR79Q, 
which prevents ARL13B’s GEF activity for ARL3. ARL13BV358A retains all known 
ARL13B biochemical functions, is stably expressed, yet is undetectable in cilia. ARL13B
R79Q localizes to cilia, retains its GTPase activity, yet cannot activate ARL3. Using 
the Pax8rtTA; TetO-Cre system, we induced kidney-specific loss of Pkd1 alone (Pkd1fl/fl) or 
in combination with either of these alleles (Pkd1fl/fl; Arl13bV358A/fl or Pkd1fl/fl; Arl13bR79Q/fl) 
in adult mice. This adult induction model allowed us to directly test ARL13B’s ciliary and enzymatic roles in kidney cystogenesis in vivo .Results: At 18-weeks, control mouse kidneys had a kidney weight to body weight 
ratio (KW:BW) of 1.39±0.04. In adult induction models, loss of Pkd1 alone led to severe 
cystic kidneys with KW:BW of 9.71±1.21, while concomitant loss of Pkd1 and ciliary exclusion of ARL13B (V358A) or loss of GEF activity for ARL3 (R79Q) suppressed the cystic phenotype caused by loss of Pkd1 alone with KW:BW of 2.69±0.47 and 2.44±0.43, respectively.
Conclusions: In mouse models, loss of ciliary ARL13B or loss of GEF activity for 
ARL3 suppressed the severe cystic kidney phenotype caused by loss of Pkd1 alone. These 
results reveal that ARL13B regulates the CDCA through its GEF activity. Our findings indicate that ARL13B activates a pro-cystogenic pathway, providing a mechanism that could be targeted therapeutically.
Funding: NIDDK Support, Other NIH Support - NIGMS
TH-OR68  Oral Abstract  Thursday
Investigations in Polycystic and Tubulointerstitial Kidney Diseases
Deletion of the Circadian Clock Gene Bmal1 in Renal Collecting Ducts 
Leads to Rapid Cyst Growth in Autosomal Dominant Polycystic Kidney DiseaseAbeda
 Jamadar
,1 Meekha  M. Var ghese,1 Michelle  L. Gumz,2 Reena  Rao.1 
1University of Kansas Medical Center Department of Internal Medicine, 
Kansas City, KS; 2University of Florida, Gainesville, FL .
Background: Autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD) is an 
inherited kidney disease characterized by progressive cyst growth from the nephrons 
that can lead to loss of renal function and end stage renal disease. Here we examined if disruption of the circadian clock can alter ADPKD progression. Circadian rhythms are intrinsic, cyclical ~24-hour oscillations in behavior and physiology that coordinate biological processes with the time of day. In mammals, circadian rhythms are regulated by cell-autonomous circadian clocks. BMAL1 is a transcription activator, and a core component of the circadian clock, which plays an important role in physiological rhythms including the cell cycle, metabolism, and inflammation.
Methods: To determine the effect of Bmal1 gene deletion in ADPKD kidneys, 
we used the Pkd1
RC/RC mouse, a Pkd1 gene hypomorph mouse model of ADPKD.  
Pkd1RC/RC;Bmal1f/f;Pkhd1cre mice (RC/RC-Bmal1KO) in which Bmal1 (Arntl1 gene) was 
specifically deleted in the renal collecting ducts and connecting tubules was generated on pure C57BL6/J background and compared with wild type (WT) and Bmal1
f/f;Pkhd1cre 
mice (RC/RC-Bmal1KO). All the mice were sacrificed at 8 months of age at noon time and kidneys were analyzed
Results: We found that the disease progressed rapidly in RC/RC-Bmal1KO 
mouse kidneys. At 8 months, RC/RC-Bmal1KO littermates showed significantly larger kidneys with significantly higher kidney/body weight ratio and cyst area as compared to RC/RC kidneys. In addition, we found that RC/RC-Bmal1KO kidneys had increased cell proliferation and apoptosis as indicated by higher KI-67 and TUNEL staining, respectively. Immunoblot analysis showed significantly increased expression of pro-proliferative factors in RC/RC-Bmal1KO kidneys compared to RC/RC kidneys. Bulk RNA seq analysis indicated significantly reduced fatty acid metabolism in RC/RC mice as compared to WT mice, which was further reduced in RC/RC-Bmal1KO mice.
Conclusions: These results show for the first time that disruption of the renal 
circadian clock is a trigger for early and accelerated disease progression in ADPKD.
Funding: NIDDK Support
TH-OR69  Oral Abstract  Thursday
Investigations in Polycystic and Tubulointerstitial Kidney Diseases
Ablation of Long Noncoding RNA Hoxb3os Exacerbates Cystogenesis in 
Mouse Polycystic Kidney DiseaseKaram
 S. Aboudehen
,1 Ivan  D. Weisser,2 Kara  Eckberg,2 Stephen  D’Amico,1 
Daniel  J. Buttram.2 1Stony Brook University, Stony Brook, NY; 2Regents of the 
University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN .
Background: Autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD) is a 
monogenic disorder characterized by the formation of cysts in the kidney, and is 
primarily caused by mutations in two genes, PKD1 and PKD2. Long non-coding RNA (lncRNA) are >200 bp in length, lack an open reading frame, and have recently emerged as epigenetic regulators of development and disease. The involvement of lncRNAs in ADPKD is not known.
Methods: In this study, we investigated the role of lncRNA Hoxb3os in ADPKD by 
ablating its expression in the mouse.
Results: Phenotypic analysis revealed that Hoxb3os-null mice were viable and 
had grossly normal kidney morphology. At the molecular level, Hoxb3os-null kidneys 
showed activation of mTOR/AKT signaling and subsequent increase in cell proliferation. To determine whether downregulation of Hoxb3os affects cystogenesis, we crossed the Hoxb3os-null mouse to two orthologues Pkd1 mouse models: Pkhd1/Cre; Pkd1
F/F (rapid 
cyst progression) and Pkd1RC/RC (slow cyst progression). Ablation of Hoxb3os exacerbated 
cyst growth in both mouse models. To gain insight into the mechanism(s) whereby Hoxb3os inhibition promotes cystogenesis, we performed proteomic analysis of mTOR/AKT pathway between single knockout (Pkd1
-/-, SKO) and double knockout (Pkd1-/- 
and Hoxb3os-/-, DKO) mice. Compared to SKO, DKO mice displayed increased levels 
of total and phosphorylated RICTOR, a protein component specific to mTORC2. This was accompanied by enhanced phosphorylation of AKT at Ser473, a known mTORC2 phosphorylation site. Physiologically, kidneys from DKO mice displayed between  
40-50% increase in cell proliferation.
Conclusions: Results from this study indicate that ablation of Hoxb3os in mouse
ADPKD dysregulated mTORC2 and exacerbated cystogenesis.
Funding: NIDDK Support



Investigations in Polycystic and Tubulointerstitial Kidney Diseases
Key: TH - Thursday; FR - Friday; SA - Saturday; OR - Oral; PO - Poster; PUB - Publication Only
Underline represents presenting author.
21
J Am Soc Nephrol 34: 2023Oral Abstract/Thursday
TH-OR70  Oral Abstract  Thursday
Investigations in Polycystic and Tubulointerstitial Kidney Diseases
Aberrant Renal Microvascular Remodelling and Impaired Blood 
Perfusion Occur in the Early Stages of Autosomal Dominant Polycystic Kidney DiseaseDaniyal
 
J.
 
Jafree,1 Charith  Perera,1 Gideon  Pomeranz,1 Laura  W ilson,1 
William
 
J.
 
Mason,1 Maria  K. Joannou,1 Yoshiharu  Muto,2 Benjamin  D.  
Humphreys,2 Mark  Lythgoe,1 Simon  Walker-Samuel,1 David  A.  Long.1 
1University College London, London, United Kingdom; 2Washington 
University in St Louis School of Medicine, St Louis, MO .
Background: The renal microvasculature is altered in autosomal dominant polycystic 
kidney disease (ADPKD); assumed to be a secondary consequence of expanding fluid-
filled cysts. However, the vascular phenotype may be an important contributor from the initiation of PKD. Therefore, we assessed the molecular profile, structure, and function of the renal microvasculature in the early stages of ADPKD.
Methods: We amassed single nucleus RNA-seq (snRNA-seq) data of microvasculature 
from human ADPKD explants, validating findings using 3D confocal microscopy. A time-course of murine PKD carrying an orthologous mutation (p.R3269C) in Pkd1 (Pkd1
RC/RC) 
was generated by assessing kidney:body weight ratio and blood urea nitrogen. Arterial spin labelling (ASL) and 3D confocal microscopy were leveraged to examine renal blood flow and microvascular structure at early (3 months) and late (9 months) timepoints in the Pkd1
RC/RC murine model.
Results: A population of osteopontin (SPP1)+ vessels was identified in pericystic 
regions of human ADPKD, but not in human kidney disease of other etiologies. Endothelial SPP1 was upregulated in mice at 3 months of age; long before kidney function declined in the mouse model. This was associated with reduction in renal blood flow in non-cystic regions of cortex of Pkd1
RC/RC mice compared to controls at both 3 months (p = 0.005) 
and 9 months (p = 0.004) of age. In 3-month-old Pkd1RC/RC mice, abnormal microvascular 
patterning was found, including decrease in mean vessel length (p = 0.04) and increased vascular density ( p = 0.01).
Conclusions: Multiple modalities applied to mouse and human tissues suggest that 
microvascular molecular profile, structure and function are altered in ADPKD prior to irreversible loss of renal function. Our findings advocate the renal microvasculature in ADPKD as a therapeutic target, with the potential to modulate or preserve organ function from early stages of the disease.
Funding: Government Support - Non-U.S.
TH-OR71  Oral Abstract  Thursday
Mechanisms and Single-Cell Transcriptional Profiles in Transplant Rejection and Ischemia Reperfusion Injury
Live Imaging Coupled with Image-Based Machine Learning Uncovers 
Potential Drivers and Therapeutic Targets in a Human Model of Ischaemic Reperfusion InjuryCarmen
 
M.
 
Cusack, Harry
 
Horsley, Alan
 
D.
 
Salama, Enriko
 
Klootwijk. 
University College London, London, United Kingdom .
Background: During renal transplantation, kidneys are subjected to periods of 
hypoxia accompanied with nutrient deprivation, followed by reperfusion, stimulating the 
infiltration of immune cells into the kidney. There is growing interest in novel preservation methods to improve graft outcomes.
Methods: Primary proximal tubular epithelial cells (PTCs) were exposed to hypoxia 
(1% O
2) for 72 hours in Hanks Balanced Salt Solution (HBSS) to mimic nutrient 
deprivation, with or without foetal bovine serum (FBS). PTCs were re-oxygenated (21% O
2) in complete Dulbecco’s Modified Eagle Medium (DMEM). PTCs were imaged live 
using deconvolution laser-scanning confocal microscopy. A supervised machine learning (ML) random forest pixel classifier was trained to extract cellular morphometrics and injury data.
Results: Nutrient deprivation was associated with greater cell death and injury 
independent of hypoxia and is partially ameliorated by FBS supplementation (P≤.001). Furthermore, distinct cellular morphological differences were observed between conditions, indicating specific patterns of cellular injury and death.
Conclusions: Nutrient Deprivation is associated with the greatest degree of renal 
tubular injury, regardless of oxygen concentration. FBS may help to reduce tubular injury in transplanted organs. Further work is required to define the protective properties exhibited by FBS. Live imaging and ML are promising modalities for exploring cell death and potential therapeutics in ischemic reperfusion injury.
Figure 1: A) Nutrient deprived PTCs exposed to normoxia with no FBS (72h) and reoxygenated with complete DMEM (24h) B) ML mask generated from (A), C) Cell death ratios of PTCs +/- FBS generated from ML pipeline.
TH-OR72  Oral Abstract  Thursday
Mechanisms and Single-Cell Transcriptional Profiles in Transplant Rejection and Ischemia Reperfusion Injury
PPARα, as a Key Determinant of Kidney Size, Revealed by Multi-Omics
Hiroaki
 
Kikuchi,1,2 Mark  A.  Knepper.1 1National Institutes of Health, 
Bethesda, MD; 2Tokyo Ika Shika Daigaku, Bunkyo-ku, Japan .
Background: Mechanisms involved in compensatory hypertrophy of the kidney 
remain incompletely understood. New ‘-omic’ methodologies have been recently 
introduced that have the potential of identifying complex mechanisms. Here we seek to identify the earliest signaling changes in the contralateral kidney after unilateral nephrectomy (UNx) in mice using next-generation sequencing and proteomics techniques combined with lipid analysis.
Methods: Experiments were done in mice undergoing UNx and sham nephrectomy. 
At specific time points (24 hours and 72 hours) after surgery, the earliest portion of the kidney proximal tubule (PT-S1) was manually micro-dissected and utilized for transcriptomic analysis by single-tubule small sample RNA-Seq and single-tubule ATAC seq. Furthermore, quantitative proteomic analysis and lipid anlaysis were carried out using whole kidney.
Results: Kidney volume was already increased 24 hours after UNx, reaching a plateau 
at 72 hours. Quantitative morphometry in microdissected proximal tubules showed significant increases in outer diameter and mean cell volume, but no clear increase in the cell count per unit length. Measurements of DNA accessibility (ATAC-seq), transcriptome (RNA-seq) and proteome (quantitative protein mass spectrometry) independently identify patterns of change that are indicative of activation of the lipid-regulated transcription factor, PPARα. Among genes/proteins included as “Lipid Transport”, Cd36, Fabp5, Atp8a1, Atp11c, Gm2a, Gramd1b, Npc2, Apoa2, Apoa4, Atg9a, Cert1, Osbpl9, Slc10a2 and Tex2 were identified as changed in our data integration analysis. Lipid analysis using gas chromatography shows an increased abundance of PPARα ligands in the hypertrophied kidney. Activation of PPARα by fenofibrate administration increases proximal tubule cell size, while genetic deletion of PPARα decreases it.
Conclusions: Compensatory growth of the kidney is associated with increased 
proximal tubule cell size, but not cell number. PPARα is an important determinant of proximal tubule cell size and is a likely mediator of compensatory proximal tubule hypertrophy. Early stages of compensatory hypertrophy are associated with altered fatty acid and cholesterol metabolism including anabolic pathways required for synthesis of new membranes needed for cell growth.
Funding: Other NIH Support - NHLBI project ZIA-HL001285, ZIA-HL006129, 
M.A.K.



Mechanisms and Single-Cell Transcriptional Profiles in Transplant Rejection and Ischemia Reperfusion Injury
Key: TH - Thursday; FR - Friday; SA - Saturday; OR - Oral; PO - Poster; PUB - Publication Only
Underline represents presenting author.
22
J Am Soc Nephrol 34: 2023Oral Abstract/Thursday
TH-OR73  Oral Abstract  Thursday
Mechanisms and Single-Cell Transcriptional Profiles in Transplant Rejection and Ischemia Reperfusion Injury
Spatiotemporal Immune Atlases of Two Gene-Edited, Pig-to-Human 
Kidney XenotransplantsMatthew
 
D.
 
Cheung, Rebecca
 Asiimwe, James
 
F.
 
George, Jayme
 
E.
 
Locke, 
Paige
 
M.
 
Porrett. The University of Alabama at Birmingham Heersink School 
of Medicine, Birmingham, AL.
Background: Xenotransplantation is a promising solution for the organ shortage, 
but enthusiasm to proceed to clinical trials is tempered by persistent knowledge gaps 
about the human immune response to porcine kidney xenografts and how best to control it. Preliminary data from our group and others have suggested a role for complement immune-mediated injury of the xenograft. We used state-of-the-art single-cell technologies to characterize the human immune response to porcine kidney xenografts in two brain-dead human recipients, one of whom received the C5a inhibitor eculizumab.
Methods: Kidneys from 10-gene modified pigs were transplanted into 
two nephrectomized brain-dead human recipients in the setting of standard immunosuppression (induction: anti-thymocyte globulin and rituximab; maintenance: tacrolimus, mycophenolate mofetil, prednisone). Decedent 2 also received eculizumab. Xenograft core biopsies were taken pre- and post-transplant (days 1, 2, and at termination on day 3) and assessed by spatial transcriptomics. Porcine and human CD45+ cells were sorted from the explanted xenograft and analyzed using single-cell RNA seq. Data were aligned to a custom porcine-human reference genome to distinguish porcine and human transcripts and analyzed using Seurat and cell2location.
Results: Human immune cells were uncommon in the xenograft biopsies; few human 
neutrophils and macrophages were detected 3 days after transplant. Human neutrophils were reduced by 7-fold in decedent 2. Myeloid cells were the predominant lineage in the porcine and human compartments, and both human and porcine macrophages expressed an anti-inflammatory gene signature. Notably, human B and T cells were absent in the xenograft cortex at all time points assessed in both decedents.
Conclusions: Limited human immune cells infiltrate the porcine kidney early 
after xenotransplantation. Eculizumab administration was associated with a decrease in neutrophils in the xenograft. These data suggest that the addition of a complement inhibitor to conventional immunosuppression may limit further innate immune cell graft infiltration in a preclinical human model of xenotransplantation. These data may help inform the immunosuppression design for upcoming clinical trials.
Funding: Commercial Support - United Therapeutics Corporation
TH-OR74  Oral Abstract  Thursday
Mechanisms and Single-Cell Transcriptional Profiles in Transplant Rejection and Ischemia Reperfusion Injury
Subpopulations of Injured Proximal Tubular Cells in Allograft Kidneys: 
Computational Analysis of Available scRNAseq DatasetsSylvina
 
da Silva Fernandes,1,2 Peter  Boor,2 Benjamin  A.  V ervaet.2,1 
Laboratory of Pathophysiology and Laboratory of Nephropathology. 
1Universiteit Antwerpen, Antwerpen, Belgium; 2Universitatsklinikum Aachen, 
Aachen, Germany.
Background: Single-cell RNAseq has been used to investigate the cellular 
phenotypical landscape of allograft kidneys undergoing ischemia/reperfusion injury. 
Rather less attention has been paid to the proximal tubular cell (PTC) population. Here, we re-analyzed human single-cell (sc)RNAseq datasets of histologically normal and injured allograft kidneys to characterize PTC phenotypes.
Methods: We analyzed five publicly available human scRNAseq datasets, 
including data on histologically normal appearing kidney allografts (two datasets) and allografts with acute tubular injury (three datasets). Using R software (Seurat, DESeq2, clusterProfiler), we identified “injured” and “healthy” PTC populations, and determined their differentially expressed genes (DEGs) and enriched pathways. We compared the DEGs and pathways of “injured PTC populations” from histologically normal allografts with those of adverse allografts.
Results: In all datasets, we identified at least one healthy and one injured PTC 
population. The injured PTCs were characterized by the expression of established PTC injury markers (CDH6, SPP1, IL32). Most of the commonly dysregulated pathways in the injured PTCs were related to energy metabolism: fatty acid/amino acid metabolism, oxidative phosphorylation, glycolysis/gluconeogenesis. The injured PTCs in one of the two histologically normal allograft datasets presented markers of failed repair (upregulated DCDC, downregulated SLC5A12/SLC7A13). These PTCs also showed enrichment of Wnt- and Hippo-signaling pathways, previously identified in a mouse model of AKI-to-CKD progression. Although the average relative proportion of injured PTCs was lower in the histologically normal allografts (4,6% +/- 4,6%) compared to the injured allografts (15,1% +/- 9,9%), inherent inter-dataset heterogeneity did not reveal statistical significance.
Conclusions: We identified and characterized common PTC subpopulations across 
five allograft scRNAseq datasets. We found that histologically normal appearing allograft kidneys contain an injured PTC population, which is shared with allografts with acute tubular injury.TH-OR75  Oral Abstract  Thursday
Mechanisms and Single-Cell Transcriptional Profiles in Transplant Rejection and Ischemia Reperfusion Injury
Cold Storage-Mediated p38MAPK Activation: A Potential Contributor 
of Proteasome Dysfunction and Kidney Damage After TransplantationDinesh
 
Bhattarai , Seongok
 
Lee, Nirmala
 
Parajuli. University of Arkansas for 
Medical Sciences, Little Rock, AR.
Background: The majority of donor kidneys require cold storage (CS) prior to 
transplantation, but this process usually leads to suboptimal outcomes, due to CS 
activating cellular pathways that damage kidney tissue. Previously, we demonstrated that the CS followed by transplantation decreases proteasome function in rat renal grafts; however, the mechanism of this dysfunction is not known.
Methods: Established in vivo (CS+Tx) and in vitro (CS+RW) models of rat kidney 
cold storage followed by transplantation. The proteasome function was performed using rat kidney homogenates and fluorescent-based peptide substrates. The subunit level of the proteasome subunit was characterized using renal extracts and western blotting.
Results: Western blots showed an unprecedented higher-molecular-weight band of 
Rpt6 subunit of the proteasome after CS+Tx, suggesting a post-translational modification (PTM) of the Rpt6 subunit. Non-denatured western blots for Rpt6 revealed aggregated proteasome levels after CS+Tx. Phosphatase treatment of renal extracts depleted the higher-molecular-weight band of the Rpt6 subunit in the CS+Tx, suggesting that the aggregation of Rpt6 was associated with phosphorylation. Renal (NRK) cells exposed to CS+RW showed a time-dependent increase p38MAPK activation. Treatment of NRK cells with p38MAPK inhibitor (SB202190 or VX-745) during CS followed by rewarming increased the cell viability and proteasome activity when compared to the CS+RW condition, suggesting p38 MAPK negatively regulates tubular cell viability during CS+Tx/RW. Finally, ex vivo treatment of the donor kidney with Bortezomib prior to transplantation (no CS) increased renal dysfunction after transplantation, suggesting normal proteasome function is needed to prevent renal injury in the transplants.
Conclusions: Together, our results suggest that CS-mediated activation of the 
p38MAPK may contribute to Rpt6 phosphorylation/aggregation, which then leads to decreased proteasome function and renal injury following CS+Tx. Therefore, p38MAPK could be a novel therapeutic target during CS to reduce CS+Tx-mediated graft failure.
Funding: NIDDK Support
TH-OR76  Oral Abstract  Thursday
Mechanisms and Single-Cell Transcriptional Profiles in Transplant Rejection and Ischemia Reperfusion Injury
Mechanism of Cold Storage-Mediated Regulation of Heat Shock 
Proteins in Renal Grafts After TransplantationSeongok
 
Lee, Nirmala
 
Parajuli. University of Arkansas for Medical Sciences 
College of Medicine, Little Rock, AR.
Background: Ischemia-reperfusion injury associated with cold storage (CS) 
followed by transplantation contributes to impaired protein homeostasis leading to kidney 
graft injury. However, the mechanisms of impaired protein homeostasis remain elusive.
Methods: Isolated donor rat kidneys were stored in University of Wisconsin (UW) 
solution at 4°C for 0- or 18-hr followed by transplantation to recipient rats (CS+Tx). To simulate in vitro model of CS+Tx, rat or human proximal tubular cells (PTCs) were exposed to UW solution at 4°C followed by rewarming (RW) at 37°C (CS+RW). RNA interference, overexpression studies, and western blotting were the key assays.
Results: Using in vivo and in vitro models of transplantation, we found that the two 
members of 70-KDa heat shock proteins (HSPs) were dysregulated—a robust increase of Hsp72 and a decrease of Hsc70—in kidney grafts after CS+Tx. HSF1 is a stress-activated transcription factor that induces HSPs during stress. Our data show that the HSF1 was significantly increased and modified during CS in both in vitro and in vivo 
transplant models, but decreases after reperfusion/rewarming episodes in kidney/renal cells. To investigate the mechanisms of excessive induction of Hsp72 after CS+Tx, the protein level of Hsc70 and/or HSF1 was modulated in PTCs, followed by CS+RW. Interestingly, Hsc70 knockdown in PTCs increased Hsp72 protein but decreased HSF1 protein. Whereas HSF1 depletion increased Hsc70 protein and did not change the Hsp72 protein level in PTCs, the double knockdown of HSF1 and Hsc70 significantly increased the Hsp72 protein levels. Finally, the HSF1 knockdown in PTCs followed by CS+RW decreased Hsc70 levels but increased the Hsp72 protein.
Conclusions: These data show a reciprocal relationship between Hsc70 and Hsp72 
in PTCs and that the Hsc70 negatively regulates Hsp72 protein levels. Our data also indicated that the excessive increase of Hsp72 is not regulated by the classical HSF1 pathway, and the elevated Hsp72 protein negatively regulates kidney function after CS+Tx. Together, the results suggest Hsp72 as a potential therapeutic target during CS to improve outcomes after kidney transplantation.
Funding: NIDDK Support
TH-OR77  Oral Abstract  Thursday
Mechanisms and Single-Cell Transcriptional Profiles in Transplant Rejection and Ischemia Reperfusion Injury
Evaluation of Porcine Cell Chimerism and Viral Transmission Using a 
Preclinical Human Brain-Dead Decedent ModelMatthew
 D.
 
Cheung, Christopher
 Fucile
, Rebecca
 Asiimwe, James
 F
.
 
George, 
Jayme
 
E.
 
Locke, Paige
 
M.
 
Porrett. The University of Alabama at Birmingham 
Heersink School of Medicine, Birmingham, AL.
Background: Xenotransplantation is a potential solution to the organ shortage crisis, 
but questions around the potential for zoonotic disease transmission need to be addressed 
before clinical trials can be safely undertaken. Because zoonotic transmission cannot be assessed in vitro or in preclinical animal models, we used a preclinical brain-dead 



Mechanisms and Single-Cell Transcriptional Profiles in Transplant Rejection and Ischemia Reperfusion Injury
Key: TH - Thursday; FR - Friday; SA - Saturday; OR - Oral; PO - Poster; PUB - Publication Only
Underline represents presenting author.
23
J Am Soc Nephrol 34: 2023Oral Abstract/Thursday
human decedent model to evaluate porcine cell chimerism in human tissues as well as the 
transmission of porcine endogenous retroviruses (PERVs) and porcine cytomegalovirus (PCMV) after porcine kidney xenotransplantation.
Methods: Kidneys were procured from a 10-gene modified pig, transplanted into 
two nephrectomized brain-dead human decedents, and followed for 3 days. Single-cell RNA seq (scRNAseq) was performed on peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) sorted from the xenograft recipients before and after transplantation on post-operative (POD) days 1, 2, and 3. Single-nucleus RNA seq (snRNAseq) was performed on kidney biopsies collected pre-transplant and on POD 1 and 3, as well as distant tissues such as heart, lung, liver, spleen, lymph node, small bowel, and omentum upon termination of the experiment. Sequencing data were aligned to a novel PERV-PCMV-porcine-human merged reference genome to differentiate porcine and human cell types and assess for viral transcript expression. Data were analyzed using the package Seurat 4.0.
Results: ScRNAseq analysis of over 500,000 PBMCs revealed a small number of 
porcine cells (0.04% and 0.008%) in decedent 1 and 2, respectively, while there was no detection of porcine cells in any of the 150,000 sequenced cells from human organs. PERV-A and PERV-B (expression level range: 0.5-4) transcripts were detected in a small number of porcine kidney cells (0.79%) and within the porcine cells detectable in the human PBMCs; however, there was no detection of PERV-C. There was no detection of PERV in any of the human organs. No PCMV was detectable in any porcine or human compartment.
Conclusions: Sc- and snRNAseq can detect viral transcript expression and cell 
chimerism from mixed porcine-human samples. There was no detectable PERV or PCMV transmission early after xenotransplantation, but limited by the short duration of the study. Additional studies will be needed to address long-term safety profiles after xenotransplantation.
Funding: Commercial Support - United Therapeutics Corporation
TH-OR78  Oral Abstract  Thursday
Mechanisms and Single-Cell Transcriptional Profiles in Transplant Rejection and Ischemia Reperfusion Injury
The Alteration of Monocyte Subsets and the Early Acute Rejection After 
Kidney TransplantationJeongin
 
Song, Jeongmin
 
Cho, Yong Chul
 
Kim, Hajeong
 
Lee. Seoul National 
University Hospital, Jongno-gu, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
Background: Despite the use of recent immunosuppressive agents that mainly 
modulate adaptive immunity, early acute rejection (EAR) remains an unresolved problem 
in kidney transplantation (KT). Innate immune cells including monocyte/macrophage-lineage cells may contribute to the EAR occurrence, so we explored the population and phenotypic changes of circulating monocytes in KT recipients.
Methods: Pre- and post-KT peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from  
60 KT recipients and 20 live donor samples were collected and analyzed by flow cytometry. Monocytes were classified into three types: classical (CD14
++CD16-), 
intermediate (CD14++CD16+), and non-classical (CD14+CD16++) monocytes. Post-KT 
samples were collected at the same time as the protocol biopsy within post-operative days 14. The outcome was biopsy-proven acute rejection (BPAR) events excluding borderline T-cell mediated rejection.
Results: A total of 60 study population, BPAR was diagnosed in 10 of the KT 
recipients, and 7 of them received living donor KT. In recipients without EAR, the proportions of classical monocytes among CD45
+ cells were significantly increased  
(Fig. 1A, 8.90±5.40% vs 14.60±7.97%, p<0.001) after KT, and the proportions of non-classical monocytes were distinctly decreased(Fig. 1C, 1.45±1.70% vs 0.40±0.47%, p<0.001) after KT. In contrast, in BPAR patients, there were no significant differences in the proportions of all monocyte subsets after KT. Interestingly, the proportion of non-classical monocytes was the lowest in BPAR patients than KT recipients without rejection or kidney donors in both the pre-and post-KT periods(Fig. 1F. 0.72±0.42% vs 1.45±1.67% and 1.09±0.56% at pre-KT (p=0.150 and 0.652), 0.72±0.42% vs 0.37±0.37% and 1.09±0.56% at post-KT (p=0.035 and 0.204)).
Conclusions: Our findings suggest that changes in monocyte subsets before and after 
KT are associated with EAR occurrence in KT recipients. Non-classical monocytes, in particular, may play an important role in the development of EAR.
Figure 1. Changes in each monocyte subset before and after KT. (No AR; No acute rejection, BPAR; biopsy-proven acute rejection)TH-OR79  Oral Abstract  Thursday
Mechanisms and Single-Cell Transcriptional Profiles in Transplant Rejection and Ischemia Reperfusion Injury
MIF-CD74: A Novel Inflammatory Pathway that Suppresses 
Allograft-Infiltrating Tregs During RejectionNour
 
K.
 Y
ounis,1 Zhabiz  Solhjou,2 Hengcheng  Zhang,1 Abdullah  B. El 
Kurdi,3 Ahmad  Halawi,1 Richard  Bucala,4 Dongliang  Zhang,1 Jamil  R. Azzi.1 
1Brigham and Women’ s Hospital, Boston, MA; 2Scripps Green Hospital, La 
Jolla, CA; 3American University of Beirut, Beirut, Lebanon; 4Yale School of 
Medicine, New Haven, CT .
Background: We previously showed that CD74, a key receptor of MIF, a pro-
inflammatory cytokine, is upregulated in the urinary exosomal mRNAs of kidney 
transplant recipients during rejection. We investigated this pathway in allo-immunity and discovered a previously unknown critical role in suppressing immune regulation.
Methods: CD74KO (KO), and CD74fl/fl-Foxp3-GFP-Cre C57BL/6J mice were 
generated using CRISPR-Cas9 technology and used as recipients for fully mismatched BALB/c heart transplants. We performed single-cell and bulk RNA sequencing, CHIP-seq, immunophenotyping using flow cytometry, and various ex-vivo studies to assess the impact of the MIF-CD74 pathway on Tregs Homeostasis.
Results: CD74KO recipients of fully mismatched heart allograft displayed indefinite 
allograft survival with a 3-fold increase in allograft-infiltrating Tregs, compared to WT. While naïve Tregs and Tregs in the spleen of WT recipients did not express CD74, Tregs infiltrating the heart allograft and dLN and Tregs stimulated in vitro upregulated CD74 up to 5-fold. Furthermore, conditional deletion of CD74 in Tregs doubled allograft survival while resulting in a 2-fold increase in allograft-infiltrating Tregs. Moreover, compared to WT, KO Tregs displayed enhanced proliferative capacity, increased FoxP3 stability, and improved suppressive function in vitro and in vivo. Furthermore, MIF was predominantly produced by CD4 and CD8 effector cells upon antigen stimulation in vitro and in vivo. Congruently, our single-cell genomic analysis performed on allograft-infiltrating T cells endorsed the superior suppressive phenotype of CD74 deficient Tregs. While allograft-infiltrating WT Tregs had an interferon-responsive phenotype, KO Tregs had a KLRG1+Areg+ phenotype with higher Helios and PD1 expression. Our TCR clonal analysis also suggested that allograft-infiltrating KO Tregs are more antigen-specific. Furthermore, our genomic analysis revealed that Interferon Regulatory Factor 1 (IRF1), a transcriptional repressor of FoxP3, is downregulated in allograft-infiltrating KO Tregs. In vitro, MIF activates IRF1 in WT but not KO Tregs.
Conclusions: MIF produced by effector T cells in response to alloantigens negatively 
affects Tregs function and homeostasis via CD74 signaling. The MIF-CD74 pathway exerts this effect through IRF1.
TH-OR80  Oral Abstract  Thursday
Mechanisms and Single-Cell Transcriptional Profiles in Transplant Rejection and Ischemia Reperfusion Injury
CER-001, a Recombinant HDL, Modulates Ischemia/Reperfusion Injury 
(IRI) in Hypothermic (HMP) and Normothermic Perfusion (NMP) Solutions Through pAKT/eNOS ActivationRossana
 
Franzin, Alessandra
 
Stasi, Marco
 
Fiorentino, Irene
 
Scalera, 
Monica
 
Campioni, Maria Teresa
 
Cimmarusti, Giuseppe
 
Castellano, 
Fabio
 
Sallustio, Paola
 
Pontrelli, Simona
 
Simone, Loreto
 
Gesualdo. 
Universita degli Studi di Bari Aldo Moro, Bari, Italy.
Background: The growing use of expanded criteria donor leads to urgent need for 
efficient organ reconditioning strategies. CER-001 (Abionyx), a HDL lipoprotein particle, 
has shown clinical anti-inflammatory and protective vascular efficacy. This study aims to evaluate to role of CER-001 supplementation in perfusion solution to modulate IRI.
Methods: In an experimental model of donation in cardiac death (DCD), after  
60 minutes of warm ischemia, pig kidneys were subjected to standard cold storage(12h). Oxygenated hypothermic and normothermic renal perfusion were carried out by PerKidney system(Aferetica) for 4h. Perfused organs were divided into the CTRL and CER-001 groups (CER-001 0.4 mg/ml) and compared to organs stored on ice (SCS). Endothelial cells exposed to H
2O2, C5a and CER-001 (50-100 ug/ml) were analyzed by 
cell proliferation assay, qPCR, Western blot and FACS.
Results: During HMP and NMP treatments, resistances (mmHg/ml/min TEND CER-
001 0.404 vs CTRL 0.766, change from T0, p=0.24) and flows significantly improved in CER-001 perfused group. ELISA data on perfusates showed a reduction in MCP-1, TNFα (CER-001 vs CTRL, p<0.05). In the SCS group, the tubules appeared dilated, interstitium with infiltrate, the floccule detached from the Bowman capsule. The use of CER-001 induced a reduction in the gene expression of IL-6 and Endothelin-1  in the CER-001 vs 
CTRL group. Urinary proteinuria measured during NMP was significantly decreased in CER-001 group. WB analysis revealed that CER-001 promoted the SR-BI-pAkt-eNOS pathway, the signaling pathway that through the phosphorylation of eNOS Serine 1177 lead to release of protective nitric oxide (NO). In vitro, CER-001 prevents apoptosis, endothelial dysfunction as observed by MTT and CD31/eNOS expression and reduced the levels of marker of endothelial activation (ICAM and VCAM).
Conclusions: The use of CER-001 in the perfusion liquid counteracted 
vasocostriction and inflammation and improved renal resistance during kidney perfusion, thereby increasing pool of organ for transplant.



Mechanisms of Hypertension and Cardiorenal Disease: From the Vasculature to the Gut
Key: TH - Thursday; FR - Friday; SA - Saturday; OR - Oral; PO - Poster; PUB - Publication Only
Underline represents presenting author.
24
J Am Soc Nephrol 34: 2023Oral Abstract/Thursday
TH-OR81  Oral Abstract  Thursday
Mechanisms of Hypertension and Cardiorenal Disease: From the Vasculature to the Gut
Chemogenetic Activation of Pericytes Alters Systemic and Renal 
HemodynamicsJonathan
 W
.
 
Nelson, Matthew
 W
.
 
Hagen, Susan
 
B.
 
Gurley. Oregon Health & 
Science University, Portland, OR.
Background: Pericytes are specialized cells that wrap around capillaries to provide 
structural and metabolic support. Pericytes have also been shown to respond to vasoactive 
compounds, such as angiotensin II, to constrict capillaries. However, the full functional consequence of pericyte activation on systemic and renal hemodynamics are poorly understood. To determine whether pericytes regulate systemic or renal hemodynamics we coupled a pericyte expressing cre line (Pdgfrb-creERT2) with the Gq-DREADD (Designer Receptor Exclusively Activated by Designer Drug) mouse to create Peri-DREADD mice which have pericyte-specific activation in the presence of a DREADD agonist.
Methods: Chemogenetic activation of pericytes was induced with intraperitoneal 
injection of the DREADD-specific agonist deschloroclozapine (DCZ) in Peri-DREADD mice and control littermates. Activation of pericytes was determined by measurement of cFos accumulation in pericyte nuclei by immunohistochemistry. Acute blood pressures were measured with a Millar catheter. Cortical and medullary perfusion was measured by contrast enhanced ultrasound. Sodium excretion was measured from urine collected in metabolic cages followed by electrolyte quantification with flame photometry .
Results: We find that Peri-DREADD mice express DREADD protein within 
pericytes which accumulate nuclear cFos after activation with DCZ. DCZ treatment of peri-DREADD mice acutely increases arterial pressure and decreases medullary and cortical perfusion. Sodium excretion increases following pericyte activation by DCZ.
Conclusions: Pericytes are capable of altering hemodynamics, particularly within 
the kidney where we observed decreases in cortical and medullary perfusion after chemogenetic activation concurrent with an increased natriuresis that correlates with an increase in systemic blood pressure.
Funding: NIDDK Support, Private Foundation Support
Chemogenetic Activation of Peri-DREADD Mice Decreases Renal Perfusion.
TH-OR82  Oral Abstract  Thursday
Mechanisms of Hypertension and Cardiorenal Disease: From the Vasculature to the Gut
Piezo1 Participates the Mechanosensation of Juxtaglomerular Cells and 
Regulates Renin Production In Vitro and In VivoYiming
 
Zhou, Xiaoqiang
 Y
ang, Le
 W
ang, Siweier
 
Luo. Medical Research Center, 
Sun Yat-sen Memorial Hospital, Sun Yat-sen University, Guangzhou, China.
Background: Renin is a key rate-limiting enzyme in RAS system, which is closely 
related to water and salt metabolism and the development of cardiovascular diseases such 
as hypertension. The synthesis and secretion of renin in juxtaglomerular (JG) cells are closely regulated by the blood pressure. To date, however, the molecular identity through which JG cells respond to the blood pressure remains unclear. Recent studies identified the nonselective cation channels Piezo1 as a novel mechanosensitive ion channel which plays an important role in various physiological functions. However, whether Piezo1 channels regulates renin expression remains undetermined.
Methods: In this study, we determined the expression and subcellular localization of 
Piezo1 in JG cells by qPCR, Western blot, Immunohistochemistry. Then, a Fluo-4 AM-based calcium-imaging system was used to detect the dynamic changes of intracellular calcium in response to Piezo1 specific agonist Yoda1 and mechanical stress (MS)-induced by perfusion. Piezo1 knockout JG cells abolished Yoda1-induced effect. Then, we used RNA-seq experiment to investigate the downstream signaling of Piezo1 in JG cells. Finally, we generated adeno-associated virus (AA V)-mediated kidney-specific Piezo1 knockdown mice to investigate the in vivo effect of Piezo1.
Results: We found that the calcium permeable ion channel Piezo1 was expressed 
in JG cells in mouse kidney slides as well as mouse JG cells. Activation of Piezo1 by its agonist Yoda1 and MS induced an intracellular calcium increase and reduced the expression of renin in these cells, while knockout of Piezo1 in JG cells abolished the effect of Yoda1. Mechanistically, RNAseq assay demonstrated that activation of Piezo1 upregulated the PTGS2 expression via the calcineurin-NFAT pathway and increased the production of PTGS2 (COX-2) and PGE2 in JG cells, which inhibited cAMP production and reduced renin expression in JG cells. In animal models, we demonstrated that activation of Piezo1 significantly downregulated the blood pressure in wildtype but not kidney-specific Piezo1 knockdown mice.
Conclusions: In summary, these results revealed that activation of Piezo1 could 
regulate the renin expression in vitro and in vivo, subsequently reduction of blood pressure, highlighting its therapeutic potential as a drug target of the renin-angiotensin system.
TH-OR83  Oral Abstract  Thursday
Mechanisms of Hypertension and Cardiorenal Disease: From the Vasculature to the Gut
Cellular-Level Transcriptomics and Three-Dimensional Imaging for 
Recruited Renin CellsHiroki
 
Yamaguchi,1 Manako  Yamaguchi,1 Hirofumi  Watanabe,2 Silvia  Medrano,1 
Maria Luisa
 
S.
 
Sequeira Lopez,1 Roberto Ariel  Gomez.1 1University of Virginia 
School of Medicine, Charlottesville, VA; 2Niigata University Graduate School of 
Medical and Dental Sciences, Niigata, Japan.
Background: Renin synthesis is tightly regulated by the ability of juxtaglomerular 
cells (JG) to sense arterial pressure signals. Once severe hypotension occurs in adult 
animals, JGs promote renin synthesis first. Subsequently, a subset of vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMC) derived from renin progenitors turn on renin expression to restore homeostasis: this phenomenon is termed recruitment. However, identifying the mechanisms of the recruitment of renin lineage cells has been challenging due to their rarity and structural complexity. In this study, we investigated the transcriptome profiles and expression patterns of individual recruited renin cells by single-cell RNA-seq and three-dimensional (3D) imaging.
Methods: Since forkhead box protein D1 (FoxD1) expressing stromal cells are the 
progenitors for JGs and VSMCs of the renal arteriole, we generated FoxD1-GC; R26R
TdTomato 
mice, where all FoxD1+ descendants express tdTomato reporter. We applied a surgical 
model of aortic coarctation (AoCo) between the base at the renal arteries of the left kidney (LK) and right kidneys (RK) that received low and high perfusion pressure, respectively. We FACS sorted tdTomato
+ cells from the LK and RK cortices and performed single-cell RNA-
seq to analyze the differentially expressed genes (DEG) and the gene ontologies between LK and RK. To visualize renin-expressing cells in 3D, we applied the clear, unobstructed brain/body imaging cocktails (CUBIC) protocol for clearing kidneys of the Ren1
c-tdTomato  
mice that underwent AoCo surgery. We used Zeiss Lightsheet7 for 3D imaging.
Results: By single-cell RNA-seq, FoxD1+ cells were clustered into JG, VSMC, 
and other cell types. DEG analysis in LK compared to RK showed that Ren1 was 
the upregulated DEG in JG and VSMC. In VSMC, gene ontology analysis showed the upregulation of the cellular response to laminar fluid shear stress pathway in LK, suggesting that extracellular force changes affect the gene expression. By CUBIC protocol, renin-expressing cells in the Ren1
c-tdTomato mouse kidneys could be visualized 
in 3D. In LK, we could identify recruited VSMCs forming a stripped and ring pattern along with afferent arterioles, some extending close to or beyond the bifurcation point.
Conclusions: Severe hypotension causes the widespread recruitment of renin lineage 
VSMCs in the renal arteriole.
Funding: Other NIH Support - NIH R01DK116718 to RAG, R01HL148044 to 
MLSSL, and P50DK096373 to RAG and MLSSL
TH-OR84  Oral Abstract  Thursday
Mechanisms of Hypertension and Cardiorenal Disease: From the Vasculature to the Gut
Identification and Characterization of a Vascular Calcification Mediator 
Originating in the Adrenal GlandsShruti
 
Bhargava,1 Zhuojun  Wu,1 Vera  Jankowski,1 Joachim  Jankowski.1,2 
1Universitatsklinikum Aachen, Aachen, Germany; 2Experimental Vascular 
Pathology, Cardiovascular Research Institute Maastricht (CARIM), University of Maastricht, Maastricht, Netherlands .
Background: Patients undergoing dialysis for chronic kidney disease (CKD) foften 
suffer from vascular calcification, leading to diverse cardiovascular complications. In 
this study, we conducted a comprehensive investigation to identify and characterize a newly discovered endogenous peptide that plays a regulatory role in vascular calcification processes. Our findings shed light on an unexplored cardioprotective function of the adrenal glands in the context of CKD-associated vascular calcification.
Methods: Chromatographic fractions derived from bovine adrenal glands were tested 
for their effect on vascular calcification processes using in vitro, ex vivo, and in vivo rat model of elastocalcinosis. To identify potential mediators, mass spectrometric analysis was conducted, and the results were compared with relevant databases.
Results: A 19-aa peptide was discovered and its levels were quantified in the 
serum of end-stage renal disease patients undergoing dialysis, as well as in matched controls. This newly identified peptide, named Calcification Blocking Factor(CBF), demonstrated significant protective effects against vascular calcification. Treatment with CBF effectively reduced the calcium content in cells, thoracic aortic rings cultured under calcifying conditions, and aortas from elastocalcinosis animal models. CBF exerts its protective effects by inhibiting the transdifferentiation of aortic smooth muscle cells into osteoblast-like cells, which are responsible for driving the progression of vascular calcification. CBF interacts with the sodium-dependent phosphate transporter PIT-1, and hinders NF-κB activation and the BMP2/p-SMAD pathway, all implicated in vascular calcification. CBF treatment reduced arterial stiffness in elastocalcinosis animals. CKD patients, susceptible to vascular calcification, showed decreased CBF concentration in serum. The 19-amino acid peptide is derived from the enzymatic cleavage of the adrenal protein chromograninA by calpain1 and kallikrein. Further analysis revealed that a specific 6-8 amino acid sequence within the 19-amino acid peptide serves as the active site responsible for the calcification-blocking properties of CBF .



Mechanisms of Hypertension and Cardiorenal Disease: From the Vasculature to the Gut
Key: TH - Thursday; FR - Friday; SA - Saturday; OR - Oral; PO - Poster; PUB - Publication Only
Underline represents presenting author.
25
J Am Soc Nephrol 34: 2023Oral Abstract/Thursday
Conclusions: Our findings suggest that CBF, a novel inhibitor of vascular 
calcification derived from the adrenal glands, plays a crucial role in reducing the risk of 
vascular calcification.
Funding: Government Support - Non-U.S.
TH-OR85  Oral Abstract  Thursday
Mechanisms of Hypertension and Cardiorenal Disease: From the Vasculature to the Gut
Mechanisms of Vascular Pathology Following Peritonitis in Peritoneal 
Dialysis Patients and Therapeutic InterventionEsra
 
Cetin,1 Morgane  Mazzarino,1 Guadalupe T.  Gonzalez- Mateo,2 
Valeria
 
Kopytina,2 Maria  Bartosova,3 Iva Marinovic,3 Soma  Meran,1 
Donald
 
Fraser,1 Claus Peter  Schmitt,3 Manuel  Lopez-Cabrera,2 
Mario
 
O.
 
Labeta,1 Anne-Catherine  Raby .1 1Cardiff University, Cardiff, United 
Kingdom; 2Universidad Autonoma de Madrid Centro de Biologia Molecular 
Severo Ochoa, Madrid, Spain; 3UniversitatsKlinikum Heidelberg, 
Heidelberg, Germany.
Background: In PD patients, CV death is 10 times more likely than in the general 
population and this risk further increases following each peritonitis episode. Damage-
Associated Molecular Patterns (DAMPs) play a critical role in inflammatory pathologies, notably via their activation of Toll-like receptors (TLRs), but their specific role in mediating long-term vascular pathology following an infection remains undescribed.
Methods: We investigated a potential role for DAMPs in mediating long-term 
CV risk following peritonitis by i) characterising the long-term vascular inflammatory changes induced by peritonitis in mice, ii) identifying potential target DAMPs following peritonitis by analysis of in vivo and PD patients’ plasma samples, iii) mechanistically characterising the potential of our selected DAMP to promote key vascular inflammatory responses by critical cell types in vitro, iv) demonstrating, by pharmacologic inhibition, the critical contribution of a DAMP candidate to the maintenance of vascular pro-atherogenic responses following peritonitis in mice.
Results: Bacterial peritonitis in mice was resolved in 24h but led to vascular 
inflammatory responses, expected to promote CVD, that were maintained up to  
28 days. These included higher proportions of inflammatory leukocytes, increased cytokine levels, higher adhesion molecules, and increased blood and aortic inflammatory and atherosclerosis-associated gene expression. These findings were maintained in nephropathic animals and exacerbated in animals routinely exposed to PD fluids. In parallel to these changes, a peritonitis episode led to elevated plasma levels of a specific TLR DAMP, Calprotectin, both in animals and PD patients. In vitro, Calprotectin could 
promote typical vascular inflammatory and pro-atherosclerotic responses: monocyte chemotaxis, foam cell formation, via a reduction of cholesterol efflux by macrophages and loss of endothelial resistance. In vivo,  Calprotectin blockade robustly inhibited the 
short and long-term vascular inflammatory consequences of peritonitis.
Conclusions: This study demonstrates the major role that the Calprotectin-TLR 
pathway plays in driving long-term vascular pathology following a peritonitis episode.
TH-OR86  Oral Abstract  Thursday
Mechanisms of Hypertension and Cardiorenal Disease: From the Vasculature to the Gut
Single-Cell Pathological Landscape Analysis of Vascular Calcification in 
CKD by Imaging Mass CytometryYuyao
 
Wang, Anying
 
Cheng, Qing
 
Li, Yongman
 
Lv, Fan
 
He. Tongji Hospital 
of Tongji Medical College of Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Wuhan, China.
Background: Vascular calcification (VC) is regarded as an important pathological 
change which associated with high mortality in patient with chronic kidney disease 
(CKD). It is necessary to study changes of cell communication and their PTMs in situ.
Methods: A highly multiplexed imaging mass cytometry (IMC) panel was designed 
to simultaneously quantify 34 biomarkers of tissues from 38 patients with CKD and  
2 donors to generate 64 highly multiplexed images at single-cell resolution. All cells were divided into different cell types according to the expression of markers. Neighboring cells were defined as the top 15th nearest cells to a cell. K-means clustering algorithm was then applied to cluster cell neighborhoods into numerous community clusters (CCs). Relevant to the stage of vascular calcification by V on Kossa staining was identified as a specific target for preventing vascular calcification.
Results: 8 cell types and 16 community clusters were defined. We found that 
contractile VSMCs and progenitor cells decrease with progression of vascular calcification. The osteochondrogenic VSMCs showed a trend of decreasing first and then increasing, which may be caused by the proliferation of synthetic VSMCs in the early stage of calcification. At the same time, community clusters changed with progression of vascular calcification. Contractile VSMCs and osteochondrogenic VSMCs mixed community clusters decreased with the progression of vascular calcification. On the contrary, osteochondrogenic VSMCs dominant community clusters osteochondrogenic VSMCs elevated in severely calcified vessels. In addition, expression of H3K27me3 of community cluster 10 that mainly composed of osteochondrogenic VSMCs and fibroblasts decreased with the progression of vascular calcification.
Conclusions: Our findings reveal for the first time the various topological function 
units of VC in CKD, which also presents the single-cell pathological landscape for VC in CKD. This work highlights the potential of a community cluster with a mixture of osteogenic VSMC and fibroblasts in driving vascular calcification, which may cause by the decreasing of H3K27me3.
Funding: Government Support - Non-U.S.TH-OR87  Oral Abstract  Thursday
Mechanisms of Hypertension and Cardiorenal Disease: From the Vasculature to the Gut
CKD Causes Cardiac Metabolic Remodeling via FGF23 and FGFR4
Michaela
 A.
 Fuchs
,1 Emily  Burke,1 Myles  Wolf,1 Alexander  Grabner .1,2 1Duke 
University School of Medicine, Durham, NC; 2University Medical Center 
Hamburg-Eppendorf, Hamburg, Germany.
Background: In chronic kidney disease (CKD), serum levels of fibroblast growth 
factor (FGF) 23 are associated with increased risks of left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH), 
heart failure and death. We reported that FGF23 directly induces hypertrophic growth of cultured cardiomyocytes and structural cardiac remodeling in rodents via cardiac FGF receptor (FGFR) 4. Mitochondrial dysfunction and cardiac metabolic remodeling contribute to the development and progression of LVH and heart failure. We tested the hypothesis that FGF23-FGFR4 promote cardiac metabolic remodeling in CKD.
Methods: We induced CKD in FGFR4 global knock out mice, mice with inducible 
cardiomyocyte-specific deletion of FGFR4 and wildtype littermates using a 0.2% adenine diet for 16 weeks. At study end, cardiac structure, function, metabolism and mitochondrial composition and function was analyzed. In neonatal rat ventricular myocytes and bioengineered cardio-bundles we studied mitochondrial respiration, substrate utilization and cellular hypertrophy in response to FGF23 and inhibition of FGFR4.
Results: CKD induced robust changes to the cardiac mitoproteome (118 of 781 
proteins significantly regulated) and impairs cardiac metabolism with significant alterations in cardiac organic acids, amino acids and acylcarnitines as well as mitochondrial respiration through complex I and II. Alterations in the cardiac metabolome preceded overt signs of structural cardiac remodeling and heart failure. In mice, deletion of FGFR4 prevented cardiac metabolic remodeling, mitochondrial dysfunction and heart failure in CKD. In cardio-bundles, FGF23 transcriptionally regulated metabolism. In cultured cardiomyocytes, FGF23 impaired mitochondrial respiration and substrate utilization via FGFR4, characterized by increased proton leak (fold change ctrl vs. FGF23: 1 ± 0.48 vs 
1.43 ± 0.56*) and elevated glycolysis (fold change ctrl vs. FGF23: 1 ± 0.46 vs. 1.52 ± 
0.66*; *=p<0.05).
Conclusions: Cardiac metabolic remodeling is an early complication of CKD that 
contributes to LVH. Mechanistically, FGF23-mediated activation of FGFR4 causes mitochondrial dysfunction including impaired respiration and increased glycolysis. We postulate that early pharmacologic inhibition of FGFR4 might serve as novel therapeutic intervention to attenuate heart failure in patients with CKD.
TH-OR88  Oral Abstract  Thursday
Mechanisms of Hypertension and Cardiorenal Disease: From the Vasculature to the Gut
Left Ventricular Systolic Dysfunction in the NBCe1-B/C Knockout 
Mouse: A Possible Unappreciated Phenotype of Congenital Proximal Renal Tubular Acidosis (pRTA)Clayton
 
Brady,1 Aniko  Marshall,1 Lisa  A.  Eagler,2 Thomas  M. Pon,2 Brian  R.  
W
eil,1 Jennifer  K. Lang,2 Mark  Parker.1 1University at Buffalo Jacobs School 
of Medicine and Biomedical Sciences, Buffalo, NY; 2University at Buffalo, 
Buffalo, NY .
Background: Congenital proximal renal tubular acidosis (pRTA) is caused by 
autosomal recessive mutations in the SLC4A4 gene that encodes the electrogenic 
Na+/2HCO3− cotransporter NBCe1. Congenital pRTA is characterized by severe acidemia 
due to the loss of the kidney-specific NBCe1-A variant, which consequently impairs proximal tubule HCO
3- transport. However, congenital pRTA also presents with growth 
retardation, intellectual disability, and ocular and dental abnormalities. Intriguingly, a mouse model lacking NBCe1-B and NBCe1-C (variants which have predominantly extra-renal expression) but with intact NBCe1-A, recapitulates the spectrum of ailments of congenital pRTA without the acidemia. No cardiac phenotype has been reported in congenital pRTA patients, however recent evidence from a virally-induced partial knockdown of cardiac NBCe1 in rats suggests that NBCe1-B is cardioprotective. Therefore, we assessed NBCe1-B/C knockout mice (KO
b/c) for signs of cardiac 
impairment.
Methods: Echocardiography, intraventricular pressure-volume (PV), and 
electrocardiogram measurements were used to assess cardiac function in vivo. Heart-weight to body-weight ratio and cardiomyocyte area were used to assess for signs of cardiac hypertrophy. The Ca
2+-sensitive dye Fura-2 AM and an IonOptix imaging system 
was used to assess Ca2+-transients in isolated cardiomyocytes. Lastly, RNA-seq was used 
to investigate transcriptional changes in KOb/c hearts.
Results: We observed elevated end-diastolic and end-systolic volumes as well as 
a reduced left ventricular ejection fraction in KOb/c mice. PV loop analysis revealed 
reductions in load-independent contractility but not relaxation. Cardiac hypertrophy was not present in KO
b/c mice. The QT interval was not different between genotypes, however 
we observed increased QT variability in KOb/c mice. We further found a reduction in 
the amplitude of Ca2+-transients in cardiomyocytes isolated from KOb/c mice, providing 
an explanation for the reduction in contractility. Lastly, RNA-seq analysis revealed upregulation of gene-sets associated with membrane excitability and calcium handling.
Conclusions: We conclude that congenital absence of cardiac NBCe1-B leads 
to mechanical and electrical cardiac dysfunction in KO
b/c mice that is likely driven by 
dysregulated cardiomyocyte Ca2+-handling.
Funding: NIDDK Support, Other NIH Support - R01 grant from the NIH National 
Eye Institute (EY028580), Veterans Affairs Support



Mechanisms of Hypertension and Cardiorenal Disease: From the Vasculature to the Gut
Key: TH - Thursday; FR - Friday; SA - Saturday; OR - Oral; PO - Poster; PUB - Publication Only
Underline represents presenting author.
26
J Am Soc Nephrol 34: 2023Oral Abstract/Thursday
TH-OR89  Oral Abstract  Thursday
Mechanisms of Hypertension and Cardiorenal Disease: From the Vasculature to the Gut
Dopamine D4 Receptor Regulates Sodium Chloride Cotransporter in 
Renal Distal Convoluted TubulesMingzhuo
 Zhang
, Mingda  Liu, 
Weiwan  Wang, Zhiyun  Ren, Xiaoyan  Wang. 
Nanjing BenQ Medical Center
, Nanjing, China .
Background: Dopamine D4 receptor (D4R) is expressed in the distal convoluted 
tubule (DCT) and the mice lacking D4R have kidney-related hypertension.
Methods: The regulation and mechanisms of D4R on NCC were determined in 
D4R null mice (20 weeks-old, mixed sex) and cultured mouse distal convoluted tubule 
(mDCT) cells.
Results: NCC activities, measured by response to NCC inhibitor hydrothiazide 
(30mg/kg/day, IP, 7d), were greater in Drd4-/- mice than Drd4+/+ littermates in initial 6-hrs 
(UNa: 513±121 vs 635±87 µmol/mg 
of Cr, n=8) with SBP (118±5 vs 104±6 mmHg, n=8, 
tail-cuff) normalized on days 4-7. The renal NCC protein abundance by immunoblotting (230±51, % of control, n=4-5, same as below) and immunofluorescence was greater but ubiquitinated-NCC levels (66±13) were lower in KO than in WT mice. mRNA levels of NCC by Q-PCR and phosphorylation-NCC were not altered. NCC abundance (121±9) in KO mice remained higher than WT under the infusion of dopamine via osmotic mini-pump (1
µg/kg/min, 1wk). In the mDCT
 cells, the immunoprecipitation of D4R with 
NCC was increased by PD168077. Colocalization and interaction of them was seen with confocal microscopy and confirmed by Fret.D4R-siRNA (1.5nM, 48 hrs) increased the protein expression of NCC (152±34, n=4); D4R agonist PD168077 (0-10
µM, 
 
24 hrs) decreased NCC protein abundance concentration-dependently; D4R antagonist L-745,870 (10
µM, 24 hrs) had 
no effect but blocked the D4R agonist-mediated inhibition 
of NCC abundance. Total NCC (72±18) was decreased but ubiquitinated-NCC was increased remarkably (266±114) by PD168077 (10
µM). 
PD168077 internalized NCC by 
membrane-biotinlaytion-method and increased the NCC colocalization with lysosomal-associated membrane protein 1. The PD168077-induced NCC decrease was reversed by lysosomal inhibitor chloroquine (20
µM). 
1 hr PD168077 also decreased NCC-dependent-
intracellular sodium transport (74±1, n=7), which was blocked by D4R antagonist L-745,870. AT1R protein abundances (96±8, n=4), Ncc mRNA levels (116±13, n=9) of 
were not altered in D4 agonist treated cells at 24 hrs.
Conclusions: D4R inhibits NaCl transport in renal DCT by reducing NCC activity 
and protein abundance with promoting its internalization, ubiquitination and consequent lysosomal degradation.
TH-OR90  Oral Abstract  Thursday
Mechanisms of Hypertension and Cardiorenal Disease: From the Vasculature to the Gut
Targeted Antibiotic Modulation of the Gut Microbiome Ameliorates 
Hypertensive Organ DamageMoritz
 I. W
immer ,1,2 Valentin  Vecera,1,2 Harithaa  Anandakumar,1,2 Ulrike  Löber,3,1 
Sofia  K. Forslund,3,1 Dominik  N. Müller,1,3 Hendrik  Bartolomaeus,1,2 
Nicola  Wilck.2,1 1Max Delbruck Centrum fur Molekulare Medizin Experimental 
and Clinical Research Center, Berlin, Germany; 2Charite Universitatsmedizin 
Berlin, Berlin, Germany; 3Max-Delbruck-Centrum fur Molekulare Medizin in der 
Helmholtz-Gemeinschaft, Buch, Germany.
Background: Gut microbiota play an important role in the development of 
hypertension. To better understand the role of the gut microbiota in modulating 
hypertensive organ damage, we used narrow-spectrum antibiotics without enteral absorption to specifically deplete gram-negative or -positive bacteria in double transgenic rats (dTGR).
Methods: Four-week-old dTGR (transgenic for human renin and angiotensinogen) 
were treated with oral Vancomycin (Vanco), Polymyxin B (Poly) or Vehicle (Veh) for 3 weeks. Seven-week-old SD rats were included as healthy controls. Flow cytometry, echocardiography, telemetric blood pressure (BP) measurement, shotgun metagenomic sequencing, clinical chemistry, and gene expression analyses (qPCR & bulk RNAseq) were employed to analyze the microbiome, clinical and immune phenotype.
Results: Hypertensive kidney damage was ameliorated in Vanco treated dTGR, as 
assessed by renal Lcn2 expression, blood urea nitrogen and albuminuria. Vanco treated dTGR had significantly decreased cardiac hypertrophy. Poly treatment showed no effect. BP levels for both antibiotic treatments were not significantly different from Veh, despite a significantly improved endothelium-dependent and –independent vasorelaxation in isolated mesenteric arteries in both treated groups. Surprisingly, Vanco treatment led to a massive increase of gram-positive Lactobacilli . As the microbiome and immune system 
are closely connected, we performed in-depth flow cytometry of immune cells isolated from the heart, kidney, blood, spleen, and intestine. We observed a broad shift to pro-inflammatory immune cell subsets in dTGR. Vanco treatment could partially rescue the kidney inflammation as observed by a reduction in Th17 cells, classical dendritic cells and tissue infiltrating monocytes. Poly treatment did not alter the inflammatory signature.
Conclusions: Modulation of the intestinal microbiome by narrow-spectrum antibiotics 
affects hypertensive organ damage. Depletion of gram-positive intestinal bacteria by oral Vanco ameliorates organ damage independent of BP. Our data underscores the importance of the gut microbiome in modulating hypertensive organ damage and helps to identify potential therapeutic strategies in the microbiome (e.g. Lactobacilli ).
Funding: Government Support - Non-U.S.TH-OR91  Oral Abstract  Thursday
Onconephrology and Precision Pharmacology
Performance of eGFR Equations for Drug Dosing in Kidney Transplant 
RecipientsGregory
 L. Hundemer , Manish  M. Sood, 
Ayub  Akbari. Ottawa Hospital 
Resear
ch Institute, Ottawa, ON, Canada .
Background: For kidney transplant recipients (KTRs), drug dosing is most 
commonly determined by using eGFR as a surrogate for graft function. Which eGFR 
equation performs best for drug dosing in KTRs remains unknown.
Methods: Cross-sectional study of 415 stable KTRs from Canada and New Zealand with 
same-day values of serum creatinine and cystatin C along with measured GFR (99mTc-DTPA). 
We assessed the performance for drug dosing of CKD-EPI (both indexed to a standardized body surface area [BSA] of 1.73m
2 [mL/min/1.73m2] and non-indexed to account for actual 
BSA [mL/min]) and Cockcroft-Gault (via 3 different weights: ideal, adjusted ideal, and actual body weight) eGFR equations relative to measured GFR based upon recommended renal dosing of 8 medications commonly prescribed to KTRs: famciclovir, ganciclovir, trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole, oseltamivir, ciprofloxacin, levofloxacin, lamivudine, and nimatrelvir/ritonavir. The primary outcome was proportion of drug dosing discordance (under- or over-dosing) overall and stratified by obesity status (BMI < or ≥ 30kg/m
2).
Results: The non-indexed CKD-EPI equations led to a lower proportion of drug 
dosing discordance compared to the indexed CKD-EPI equations across all study drugs (Figure). The Cockcroft-Gault equations based upon adjusted ideal and actual body weight led to a lower proportion of drug dosing discordance compared to ideal body weight. These findings were most pronounced among obese KTRs. Overall, the non-indexed 2021 CKD-EPI eGFR equations showed the lowest proportion of drug dosing discordance across all study drugs.
Conclusions: When employing eGFR-based drug dosing for KTRs, actual BSA 
should be accounted for to mitigate the risks of under- or over-dosing. The non-indexed 2021 CKD-EPI equations provide the most accurate eGFR-based guidance for appropriate drug dosing among KTRs.
TH-OR92  Oral Abstract  Thursday
Onconephrology and Precision Pharmacology
Performance of Creatinine and Cystatin C-Based Equations Among 
Patients with Hematological or Solid Cancers: Real-World Data from a Clinical CohortSilvia
 Titan , John  C. Lieske, Jef
f W. Meeusen, 
Andrew  D. Rule, 
Sandra  Herrmann. 
Mayo Clinic Minnesota, Rochester, MN.
Background: Performance of creatinine-based eGFR equations in patients 
with malignancy may be worse than in the general population with implications for 
management including drug dosing.
Methods: We retrospectively studied all cases who had mGFR (urinary iothalamate 
clearance) performed at Mayo Clinic 2017-2023 and ICD codes for neoplasia (excluding in situ and benign lesions) up to one year prior to the mGFR date. Serum creatinine and cystatin C within 2 days of the mGFR were used to compute CKD-EPI 2021 eGFRcr and eGFRcrcys, and 2012 eGFRCys. Bias (absolute and % mGFR - eGFR) and P30 (% with eGFR >=30% different from mGFR) and confidence intervals (bootstrap) were computed. Analyses were stratified for cancer type.
Results: Results by cancer type are in the Table. Among 3719 patients with eGFRcr, 
the median bias was similar to that in the literature. Among the 522 patients with available creatinine plus cystatin C, eGFRcr had less bias but eGFRcrcys (15.5% [12.6 – 18.9]) was more accurate compared to eGFRcr (26.7% [23.1 – 30.8]) or eGFRcys (25.5% [12.6 – 18.9]). Results were similar by cancer type.



J Am Soc Nephrol 34: 2023
 Onconephrology and Precision Pharmacology
 Oral Abstract Thursday
 Conclusions:
 Our
 study
 suggests
 that
 among   patients
 with
 either
 solid
 furosemide, furosemide + difelikefalin (F+D, 20 ug/kg; i.p.; days 6-10),
 furosemide +
 hematological malignancies, the CKDEPI eGFRcrcys better reflects mGFR than either
 tolvaptan (F+T,
 mglkg; i.p.) an AVP V2 receptor antagonist: After urine collection, rats
 eGFRcr or
 eGFRcys. When possible, mGFR may be optimal for clinical decision making
 received a 2"d
 treatment (2.00 pm) and were placed in home cages.
 in these
 populations.
 Results: Initial treatment
 (day 1) of rats with furosemide evoked
 marked increase
 in urine output
 urinary sodium excretion (UNaV), and urinary potassium excretion
 Table 1_
 (UKV) with the magnitude of each greatly reduced by
 5 (dayl:days; V, 10.5+0.6
 Medlian Bias
 CI (mLfIin/ |, 73mn2
 P3O/CI (71
 5.6+0.4 mlShrs; UNaV, 971+55
 vs 396+23 UEq/Shrs; UKV, 250+14
 vs   193+20
 Creatmine and Cystatin
 available
 LEq/Shrs). Over days 6-10, S-hr urine output remained reduced throughout furosemide
 All patients (0=5221
 treatment   (diuretic   resistance).
 Combination
 treatment
 with
 either   difelikefalin
 cGFRcr
 ~0,81(-157.0,44)
 26.7 (23,08 , 30,771
 tolvaptan over days 6-10 reversed diuretic resistance as noted by
 sustained increase in V
 ~GFRcys
 6.29 (4.65.
 2555 (22.07 .2.071
 without increasing UNaV compared to furosemide alone (day 10, V; F; 5.6+0.2 mlShrs;
 eGFRercys
 3,(06 12,004,4.77)
 15.5 (2.6, 18.85)
 F+D, 10.1+0.77 mVShrs; F+T 14.1+0.9 mlShrs). Further; tolvaptan but not difelikefalin
 Solid Lumors (n=337)
 increased UKV over
 6-10.
 eiFRcr
 401.6441-2.10. (.6()
 24.6 (20.24,20.46}
 Conclusions: These
 demonstrate that AVP plays a major role in
 mediating
 "GFRcys
 6,20 (4,48, 8,03
 24,3 (20,17, 29,016}
 cGFRercys
 2.16 (1.90
 4,831
 15.7 (6.77.19.051
 diuretic resistance to furosemide
 Further;
 we show that combination therapy with
 Hematolgical (0=185)
 KOR agonist (difelikefalin) can reverse and potentially prevent diuretic resistance while
 CGFRcr
 1.850-444 [.25)
 31,0021.91.37.20
 improving loop diuretic induced hypokalemia and hyponatremia. (LSUHSC Research
 eGiFRcvs
 61.18 (2.90, 9.18
 17.7 (21.1A1.70)
 Enhancement
 Program)
 "GFRen"y $
 3,02 |0,95
 5,771
 15,2 (10.07, 20,|)
 Creatinine only availahle
 AII pticGs (0=7719)
 TH-OR95
 cGFRcr
 1,42(0.79. |,.92)
 18.0446.,66 - 19,08)
 Solid tutnors (0=20591
 Cystatin C-Defined AKI in Children Treated with Cisplatin
 CGFRct
 1,510,91,2.018)
 184 (16.52, 20.16)
 Erin Hessey
 McMahon;? Tom D. Blydt-Hansen
 Cherry Mammen
 Hematological
 6S0)
 Michael Zappitelli.
 'University of Toronto,
 Toronto, ON, Canada; "McGill
 eGFRcr
 1.33800.13. 1.92
 17. (15.6, 10.351
 University Health Centre, Montreal, QC, Canada;  The University of British
 Columbia Faculty of Medicine, Vancouver; BC;, Canada.
 TH-OR93
 Background: Cisplatin chemotherapy
 causes acute
 injury (AKI). Early AKI
 detection and
 mitigation
 prevent
 : long-term sequelae.
 Serum Cystatin € (CysC) may
 MTX652, a Novel Selective USP3O Inhibitor for the Treatment of AKI:
 be an early AKI biomarker compared to SCr and is not impacted by muscle mass  We:
 Phase
 Results in Healthy Subjects and Model-Driven Human
 1) compared AKI defined by acute CysC change (CysC-AKI) to SCr-defined AKI (SCr-
 Efficacious Dose Projections
 AKI) in children treated with cisplatin; 2) evaluated the relation of a) urine neutrophil
 Pau Aceves; Paul W Thompson, Natalie Jones, Suhail Nurbhai. Mission
 gelatinase-associated  lipocalin [NGAL]
 and kidney injury
 molecule-|
 [KIM-1]
 with
 Therapeutics Ltd, Cambridge, United Kingdom.
 CysC-AKI and SCr-AKI and b) of CysC with SCr-AKI
 Methods:
 12-centre
 prospective
 study
 of
 159
 children   receiving   cisplatin:
 Background:
 New
 treatments
 are  needed
 for AKI Dysfunctional mitochondria
 Exclusions: CKD, missing CysC
 baseline SCr: At early cisplatin infusions (Ist o 2nd
 tubule   epithelia
 are
 key drivers of
 injury; therefore approaches to
 cisplatin cycle) , SCr; CysC, urine NGAL and KIM-[
 were measured pre-/post-infusion
 improving mitochondrial quality may be beneficial in
 disease. Here we describe
 and at
 discharge_
 Outcomes: KDIGO SCr-AKI (yes/no). CysC-AKI was 2l.Sx rise from
 the clinical stage molecule MTX6S2 (also known as MTXI15652),
 a novel,
 potent and
 baseline or CysC-GFR<3Sml/min/1.73m?.
 We calculated kappa statistic for agreement
 specific inhibitor of USP3O,
 mitochondrial deubiquitylating enzyme which naturally
 of AKI definitions
 Mann-
 -Whitney U test to compare biomarker levels by AKI, and area
 antagonizes ubiquitin-dependent mitochondrial quality control mechanisms 
 preclinical
 under the curve (AUC) for a) NGALIKIM-1
 predict CysC-AKI and SCr-AKI and b)
 studies MTX6S2 protected
 tubular atrophy and fibrosis
 models of ischemia-
 for CysC to predict SCr-AKI
 reperfusion injury and unilateral ureter obstruction at doses from 0.5 to 5
 mglkg:
 Results: 154 children included (51% male_
 median age [IQR] 5.6 [2.4-11.7] years)
 Methods:   We  report   data
 from
 randomized,
 double-blind,  placebo-controlled
 SCr-AKI 7/154 (5%) , CysC-AKI 25/154 (16%) . 83% agreement (kappa-0.13 ,
 025)_
 first-in human study of MTX6S2 with cohorts evaluating SADIMAD, elderly subjects,
 There
 was n0
 significant difference in NGAL
 KIM-[
 concentrations by SCr-AKI
 relative
 bioavailability (capsule vs. suspension), food effect and the DDI potential with a
 CysC-AKI at all time points (Figurel
 Pre- and post-infusion NGAL performed similarly
 CYP3A4 inhibitor: MTX652
 was
 administered
 as a
 solution/suspension in seven single
 predict SCr-AKI and CysC-AKI (Figurel)_
 KIM-1 poorly predicted SCr-AKI
 and
 dose cohorts between 0.25 to
 and four multiple dose cohorts between 3.5 to
 CysC-AKI (Figurel).
 ~infusion CysC had the highest AUC for predicting SCr-AKI
 QD for 14 days.
 was evaluated through the review of adverse events;
 physical
 (AUC
 examinations, clinical laboratory tests,
 vital  signs
 and
 electrocardiograms.
 PKYPD
 Conclusions: CysC-AKI had
 a low level of agreement with SCr-AKI in children
 model was constructed to predict human target engagement (TE) at exposures which were
 treated with cisplatin: CysC was not a strong predictor of SCr-AKI in this population
 effective in preclinical models
 Future studies with
 more measurement time
 points
 are
 needed to determine if this is
 Results: There were no Serious Adverse Events or safety Or tolerability concerns in
 possibly due to earlier rise of CysC compared to SCr: NGAL and KIM-I did not strongly
 healthy subjects. MTX652
 was
 rapidly absorbed with a plasma half-life of & hours_
 predict AKI by either definition:
 andAUC were dose proportional and there were no meaningful time-dependent effects 0n
 Figure1' Comparison of unnary blomarkers (NGALJKIM 1) by SCr-AKI and CysC-AKI In children trealed
 PK. Formulation (capsule) or food had no clinically relevant impact. Plasma exposures in
 Wlth cisplalln
 Sclak
 GEC AK
 elderly and younger adults were comparable. Simulations identified a once daily
 WoAKI
 NoAKI
 Nq
 regimen within the range tested in the clinic able to attain TE levels similar to those
 NGAnfuslon
 N-122
 N-25
 associated with maximal renal protective effects in preclinical models.
 Corantlkn Polg (merlizin [IORI)
 444
 (30 1
 15 1 (49 81
 (35 4
 200(J
 Conclusions: This is the first report of clinical data with a USP3O inhibitor: MTX652
 ALC (9532 CIJ
 059 (0440 0 791
 0.59 (0 48-0.70)
 Post-In (usion:
 N-138
 N2122
 N425
 presented an
 acceptable safety/PK profile in healthy subjects. PK IPD modelling enabled
 corcentatkn Poimg (medln IIORI)
 413
 21,9 (16 21
 4o7
 (27,7)
 172008]
 the selection of a safe and well tolerated dose
 predicted to have renal protective effects
 AUC (955. Ci)
 0,64 (0,50-0.T71
 0.57 (046-0 621
 in humans. These results support further development of MTX6S2 as a potential therapy
 Diecherge
 N-136
 N-11b
 N-25
 for AKI:
 Colcettatk palma (medlan IIORI)
 452 (7.21
 29.8 (39 0
 15.9 (4271
 15 8 (61.01
 AuC (9523 CIJ
 061 (0,440 0 62)
 054 (0 400671
 Funding: Commercial Support
 Mission Therapeutics Ltd
 Km
 Pre-Infueion
 N-14
 N-122
 N-25
 CplaenI
 poing (mejan (IORI)
 397.9 (7455)
 4544 (44991
 434,6 (777 8)
 3t0 7 (J86 5)
 AUC (955. CiJl
 0.50 (0.290711
 044 (0,32-0 50)
 TH-OR94
 Post-Intuslons
 N138
 Ne7
 Na122
 Ne25
 Corcetratk polm ? (meaan IIORII
 230.6 (462.01
 321
 (487.61
 246,6 (452.6)
 190,9 (742,5}
 Treatment of Diuretic Resistance with a Kappa Opioid Agonist,
 AUC (95*8 Ci
 057 (0.,35-0 79)
 0.46 (0J1-Jeoi
 Diicharge
 N-136
 N118
 Ne25
 an
 Inhibitor of Central Vasopressin Secretion
 Copanicn pohag (medain IIORI)
 1588 6 (3579 B)
 27227 + (4858,3)
 1739 3 (3790 41
 1316 7 (296 81
 Ashlyn Y Anderson, Juan Gao, Kara Johnson
 B. Denys, Luke E:
 AUC (959 CIl
 0.53 (0.29-0.77)
 0.46 (0.33-0.59)
 Aoenabona NGAL
 neutronh] Gobbnase rscantod ocan; KIM | Adney Inun} molbaue1 SC AKL 3217 crejunine datned
 Beckendorf; Jacob K  Meariman, Daniel R Kapusta. LSU Health New
 nate |9ng nuY CyIC AKI Erien C detnedeeule uenay Injury AUc
 pna nour Ene Durve CI= confrlunoa niorval (DR =
 Orleans, New Orleans, LA
 Background: Prolonged
 use of furosemide for treatment of congestive heart failure
 can
 produce adverse effects
 including hypokalemia, hyponatremia, and diuretic resistance
 We hypothesized that due to diuretic-induced excretion of water; increased vasopressin
 (AVP)
 secretion
 may
 be
 key   compensatory
 mechanism
 contributing
 to   diuretic
 resistance
 Since kappa opioid receptor (KOR) agonists act centrally to inhibit AVP
 secretion and produce water diuresis, we predicted that administration of difelikefalin,
 KOR agonist; will reverse diuretic resistance to furosemide without enhancing urinary
 sodium potassium excretion.
 Methods: To test this, changes in S-hr urine output (metabolic cages; no water) were
 measured daily in Sprague-Dawley rats following injection (9.OOam) of saline
 and furosemide (10 mg/kg; i.p:
 1-5).
 Over days 6-10 rats
 were
 administered either;
 TH
 Thursday; FR - Friday; SA - Saturday; OR
 Oral; PO - Poster; PUB
 Publication Only
 Underline represents presenting author:
 27
 drug
 day
 days
 findings
 Kelly
 kidney
 may
 kidney
 kidney
 kidney
 against
 p0.C
 200mg
 1OOmg
 Pre -
 Safety
 0.56).
 dosing
 N140
 1(23.51
 Ian
 Nnoa
 (day
 days
 Key:
 



Onconephrology and Precision Pharmacology
Key: TH - Thursday; FR - Friday; SA - Saturday; OR - Oral; PO - Poster; PUB - Publication Only
Underline represents presenting author.
28
J Am Soc Nephrol 34: 2023Oral Abstract/Thursday
TH-OR96  Oral Abstract  Thursday
Onconephrology and Precision Pharmacology
SGLT2 Inhibitor Protects from Repeated Low-Dose Cisplatin-Induced 
Chronic Kidney DamageDianet
 Sanchez 
Vega,1 Leah  J.  Siskind,1 Andrew  Orwick,1 Pranav  S. Garimella,2 
V olker
 V
allon,2 Theresa  A.  Weis,1 Dana  Hammouri.1 1University of Louisville 
School of Medicine, Louisville, KY; 2University of California San Diego, La 
Jolla, CA.
Background: Cisplatin is Cognitive dysfunction is a well-known complication 
agent that causes a dose dependent acute kidney injury (AKI) in nearly a third of treated 
patients, which subsequently leads to chronic kidney disease (CKD). There are no current FDA approved medications to prevent cisplatin induced kidney damage. Sodium-glucose cotransporter 2 inhibitors (SGLT2i) reduce risk of AKI and CKD in humans, and have shown renoprotection in a single high dose experimental model of cisplatin-induced AKI. We hypothesized that SGLT2i could protect the kidney in a mouse model of repeated low dose cisplatin and cancer to better mimic the clinical scenario.
Methods: B6:129 mice with and without lung adenocarcinoma were treated with 
daily SGLT2i (empagliflozin or dapagliflozin) or vehicle control for 28 days beginning  
1 week prior to the first dose of weekly cisplatin (7mg/kg) or vehicle control. Following the third cisplatin injection, biomarkers for kidney function, injury, fibrosis, inflammation, kidney histology and tumor growth were assessed and compared between SGLT2i and vehicle control.
Results: SGLT2i treatment attenuated cisplatin-induced alterations in kidney function 
and injury. Markers of kidney fibrosis including TGF-b, a-SMA, fibronectin and collagen were lower in mice co-administered SGLT2i and cisplatin as compared to mice given vehicle control and cisplatin. SGLTi did not alter tumor growth or response to cisplatin.
Conclusions: SGLTi demonstrate a beneficial effect against kidney damage in a model 
of repeated low dose cisplatin and lung cancer. Future studies are needed to determine if they can be used post cisplatin treatment to improve and/or prevent progression of kidney injury to fibrosis and CKD.
Funding: NIDDK Support
TH-OR97  Oral Abstract  Thursday
Onconephrology and Precision Pharmacology
Pharmacokinetics of Henagliflozin in Dialysis Patients with Diabetes
Leyi
 
Gu. PHD Group. Molecular Cell Lab for Kidney Disease, Shanghai 
Peritoneal Dialysis Research Center, Renji Hospital, Uremia Diagnosis and Treatment Center, Shanghai Jiao Tong University School of Medicine, Shanghai, China.
Background: Sodium-glucose cotransporter 2 inhibitors (SGLT2i) are recommended 
to treat heart failure, irrespective of the presence of type 2 diabetes. Heart failure is one 
of the most common complications in dialysis patients. Not all SGLT2i are recommended for use in dialysis patients because less glucose enters the proximal tubule and the effects of inhibiting glucose and sodium reabsorption are reduced, as well as due to a lack of efficacy and safety data. However, emerging evidence has suggested that SGLT2i improve heart failure outcome through the off-target effect. Therefore, patients on dialysis with heart failure may benefit from SGLT2i. We conducted this study to evaluate the pharmacokinetics and safety of Henagliflozin doses of 5 mg and 10 mg in dialysis patients with diabetes.
Methods: In this prospective, randomized, open-label study, 10 hemodialysis and 
10 peritoneal dialysis patients with diabetes were randomized in a 1:1:1:1 ratio to oral administration of Henagliflozin in doses of 5 and 10 mg/day. The pharmacokinetics of a single dose of Henagliflozin on days 1 and 2, the minimum plasma concentration (Cmin) of the steady state on day 10, and single hemodialysis clearance of Henagliflozin were measured. Plasma concentrations of Henagliflozin were analyzed by using validated liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry method.
Results: The mean values of Cmax were 70.2–77.0 ng/mL and 105–143 ng/mL in 
the 5 mg and 10 mg Henagliflozin groups, respectively; the mean values of AUCinf were 777–811 h*ng/mL and 1290–1730 h*ng/mL in the 5 mg and 10 mg Henagliflozin groups, respectively. The median Tmax values ranged from 1 to 3 h across the dose range. The 
mean values of T1/2 of Henagliflozin were 14.1–14.5 and 16.2–21.0 h in the 5 mg and  
10 mg groups, respectively. The Cmin values of the steady state in dialysis patients 
taking 5 mg and 10 mg of Henagliflozin were 15.0 ± 4.4 ng/ml and 26.8 ±  16.3 ng/ml, 
respectively, which were 123.8% and 131.0% higher than those in diabetic patients with normal renal function, respectively. Henagliflozin concentration was decreased by 1.1% after hemodialysis treatment. No treatment-related serious adverse events or discontinuations occurred.
Conclusions: Henagliflozin at the current recommended dosage may be safe although 
it accumulates in patients on dialysis. Clinical trials should be conducted to examine the cardioprotective effects of Henagliflozin in dialysis patients.
Funding: Government Support - Non-U.S.
TH-OR98  Oral Abstract  Thursday
Onconephrology and Precision Pharmacology
Canagliflozin Pharmacokinetics at Steady State in Patients on Maintenance 
HemodialysisThomas
 
Mavrakanas , Ari
 
Gritsas, Efrosyne
 T
sirella, Norka
 
Rios, 
Abhinav
 
Sharma, Rita
 
Suri. McGill University Health Centre, Montreal, QC, 
Canada.
Background: Sodium glucose co-transporter 2 (SGLT-2) inhibitors improve 
cardiovascular and kidney outcomes in patients with preserved renal function or with mild 
and moderate chronic kidney disease. However, they have not been studied in patients on maintenance hemodialysis (HD). Detailed study of SGLT-2 inhibitor pharmacokinetics in patients receiving HD is the first step to establishing their safety in this population.
Methods: Patients with kidney failure on maintenance HD for at least 3 months 
were invited to participate. Those with type 1 diabetes mellitus, euglycemic ketoacidosis, or liver disease were excluded. All participants received 100 mg of canagliflozin once daily for nine days. Venous blood samples were collected immediately before (0) and 1, 1.5, 2, 3, 4, 6, 9, 12, and 24 hours after canagliflozin administration for pharmacokinetic analyses on day 8 (a mid-week non-dialysis day) and hourly during hemodialysis on day 9. Canagliflozin plasma levels were measured with liquid chromatography- mass spectrometry and compared to published estimates in healthy controls.
Results: We enrolled 10 patients (59 ± 14 years old, 30% female, median dialysis 
duration 26 months). Canagliflozin levels reached steady state on day 4, based on a calculated half-life of 7.3 hours. Pharmacokinetic results on day 8 are shown in the Table. 
There were no significant differences in drug exposure, peak plasma levels, nor time to peak plasma levels between our patients and patients with preserved renal function. Canagliflozin levels were not modified by hemodialysis (p=0.39).
Conclusions: Drug exposure with canagliflozin 100 mg daily is similar between 
patients receiving HD and individuals with preserved kidney function, and levels were not affected by HD. These results suggest canagliflozin does not accumulate in HD patients and trials of canagliflozin may be safely conducted in patients on HD to test its efficacy .
Funding: Private Foundation Support
Canagliflozin pharmacokinetics in hemodialysis
AUC0-24, drug exposure (area under the curve between 0 and 24h); Cmin, trough level; tmax, time to peak plasma concentration; Cmax, peak plasma concentration.
TH-OR99  Oral Abstract  Thursday
Onconephrology and Precision Pharmacology
Ondansetron and the Risk of Sudden Cardiac Death Among Patients 
Receiving HemodialysisSherin
 
Ismail,1 Michele  Jonsson Funk,1 Jennifer  E. Flythe.2,3 1The University 
of North Carolina at Chapel Hill Gillings School of Global Public Health, Chapel Hill, NC; 
2The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill School of 
Medicine, Chapel Hill, NC; 3Cecil G.Sheps Center for Health Services 
Research, Chapel Hill, NC .
Background: Sudden cardiac death (SCD) is common among hemodialysis (HD) 
patients. Ondansetron, an antiemetic with known QT prolonging potential, has a Food 
and Drug Administration warning about its association with fatal arrythmias in the general population. The cardiac safety of ondansetron in the HD population is unknown.
Methods: We conducted a new-user, active-comparator, cohort study using US Renal 
Data System data (2012-2019) to assess the comparative 10-day risk of SCD between HD patients initiating ondansetron vs. non-QT-prolonging antiemetics (metoclopramide/prochlorperazine/ promethazine). We used inverse probability of treatment weighting and Fine and Gray proportional subdistribution hazard models to estimate adjusted hazard ratios (aHRs) and 95% confidence intervals (CIs). We used an intention-to-treat approach and treated non-SCD as a competing event. In secondary analyses, we considered broader cardiac outcomes.



Onconephrology and Precision Pharmacology
Key: TH - Thursday; FR - Friday; SA - Saturday; OR - Oral; PO - Poster; PUB - Publication Only
Underline represents presenting author.
29
J Am Soc Nephrol 34: 2023Oral Abstract/Thursday
Results: Of 119,254 study patients, 64,978 (54.5%) initiated ondansetron and 54,276 
(45.5%) initiated a comparator antiemetic. The mean age ± SD was 60 ±15 years, median 
(IQR) years on HD was 2.2 (0.9, 4.6), and 55% were female. Ondansetron vs. comparator 
antiemetic initiation was associated with higher relative and absolute 10-day risks of SCD, aHR (95% CI) = 1.45 (1.08, 1.93); weighted risk difference (95% CI) = 0.06% (0.01,0.11). The number needed to harm was 1,672 ondansetron initiations. Analyses of other cardiac outcomes yielded similar findings.
Conclusions: Ondansetron (vs. comparator antiemetic) treatment was associated 
with higher absolute and relative 10-day risks of SCD among HD patients. Our findings may inform prescriber decisions about antiemetic selection in the HD population.
Funding: Other NIH Support - NIH/NHLBI
Figure 1. The 10-day SCD risk among hemodialysis patients initiating ondansetron vs. a non-QT-prolonging antiemetic.
TH-OR100  Oral Abstract  Thursday
Onconephrology and Precision Pharmacology
Safety Outcomes of Sodium-Glucose Cotransporter-2 Inhibitors in 
Patients with Diabetes Mellitus and CancerAisha
 
Shaikh,1,2 James  H. Flory,1,2 Andrea  Knezevic,1 Edgar  A.  Jaimes.1,2 
1Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New York, NY; 2Weill Cornell 
Medicine, New York, NY.
Background: Sodium-glucose co-transporter-2 (SGLT2) inhibitors are glucose-
lowering agents that reduce the risk of hospitalization for heart failure and chronic kidney 
disease progression. The risk of serious adverse events with SGLT2i use was low in large clinical trials, but patients with cancer were excluded from these trials. Therefore, the safety of SGLT2 inhibitors in patients with cancer is unknown.
Methods: Using our institute’s electronic medical record system, we identified 5,478 
patients with a history of diabetes mellitus and cancer who were prescribed an SGLT2 inhibitor, i.e., empagliflozin, dapagliflozin, canagliflozin or ertugliflozin, between 2013 and 2022. Data on adverse events, including urinary tract infections (UTIs), diabetic ketoacidosis (DKA), genital infections, and non-vertebral fractures, were collected using the ICD-9/10 diagnostic codes.
Results: The medical record query identified 5,478 patients who were prescribed 
an SGLT2 inhibitor. Each patient had a start and an end date for the SGLT2 inhibitor prescription, which added up to a total of 11,175 patient-years on SGLT2 inhibitors. The ICD diagnosis query revealed 424 instances of adverse events coinciding with the SGLT2 inhibitor prescription. The incidence rate of adverse events is shown in Table 1.
Conclusions: In this cohort of diabetic patients with cancer, the incidence rate of DKA 
in patients taking an SGLT2 inhibitor was higher (5.1 per 1000 patient-years) as compared to the incidence rate of DKA reported in a recent meta-analysis
1 of SGLT2 inhibitor trials 
(0.0-2.2 per 1000 patient-years) and a large observational study2 (2.37 per 1000 patient-
years). We also observed a high incidence rate of UTIs, genital mycotic infections, and non-vertebral fractures. To our knowledge, this is the first study to report the safety outcomes of SGLT2 inhibitors in diabetic patients with cancer. 
1Impact of diabetes on the 
effects of SGLT2 inhibitors on kidney outcomes. Lancet. 2022 2Comparative Effectiveness 
and Safety of SGLT2 Inhibitors Versus GLP1-RA in Older Adults. Diabetes Care. 2021
Incidence of adverse events of interest
FR-OR01  Oral Abstract  Friday
AKI Prediction and Assessment: Traditional and Novel Tools
AKI Is Associated with Long-Term Decline in Cognitive Function at  
3 Years: ASSESS-AKI Study
Pavan
 
K.
 
Bhatraju,1 Leila  R. Zelnick,1 Edward  D. Siew,2 Steven  Menez,3 
Vernon
 M.
 Chinchilli,4 Steven  G. Coca,5 James  S. Kaufman,8 Paul  L.  Kimmel,6 
Chirag
 
R.
 
Parikh,3 Alan  S. Go,7 Talat Alp  Ikizler ,2 Jonathan  Himmelfarb,1 
Mark
 M.
 
Wurfel.1 1University of Washington, Seattle, WA; 2Vanderbilt 
University, Nashville, TN; 3Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, MD; 4The 
Pennsylvania State University, University Park, P A; 5Mount Sinai Health 
System, New York, NY; 6National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD; 7Kaiser 
Permanente, Oakland, CA; 8New York University, New York, NY.
Background: Cognitive dysfunction is a well-known complication of chronic 
kidney disease but it is less known whether these long-term adverse events are present 
in survivors of AKI. We hypothesized that an episode of AKI is associated with poorer cognitive function, mediated, at least in part, by persistent systemic inflammation.
Methods: ASSESS-AKI was a multicenter prospective cohort study that enrolled 
patients surviving three months after hospitalization with and without AKI who were matched based on demographics, comorbidities and baseline kidney function. A subset of patients underwent cognitive testing using the modified mini-mental test (3MS) at 3, 12 and 36 months. The 3MS is scored on a scale of 0-100. We examined the association of AKI with long-term cognitive testing using mixed linear models accounting for matching and loss to follow-up and assessed the proportion in risk mediated by 3-month systemic inflammatory biomarkers (sTNFR-1, IL-6 and IL-8).
Results: Among 1538 patients enrolled in the parent study (769 with AKI and 769 
without), 1465 (95%) completed the 3MS at 3 months. Patients with AKI had lower 3MS scores at 3 months (difference -1.1 (95% CI: -2.0, -0.3) p=0.01) and at 3 years (-1.5 (95% 
CI: -2.4, -0.7) p<0.01) compared to matched patients without AKI. We also found that a 
higher proportion of patients with AKI had a clinically meaningful (>5 point) reduction in 3MS scores at 3 years compared to patients without AKI (10% and 5%, p<0.01). In 
mediation analyses, serum sTNFR-1 mediated 34% (p=0.01) of the AKI related risk for 3MS scores at 3 years, while IL-6 and IL-8 had non-significant proportion mediated.
Conclusions: We found that patients with AKI had significantly worse cognitive 
function at 3 years after hospitalization. We also found that sTNFR-1 levels appear to mediate a significant proportion of the risk of long-term cognitive impairment.
Funding: NIDDK Support
FR-OR02  Oral Abstract  Friday
AKI Prediction and Assessment: Traditional and Novel Tools
AKI, Glomerulonephritis, and Tubulointerstitial Nephritis Following 
Vaccination: VigiBase AnalysisSoo-Young
 Y
oon,1 Hyo Jin  Lee,1 Dae Kyu  Kim,1 Jin sug  Kim,1 Yang Gyun  Kim,2 
Ju young
 
Moon,2 Kyunghwan  Jeong,1 Hyeon Seok  Hwang.1 1Kyung Hee 
University Hospital, Dongdaemun-gu, Seoul, Republic of Korea; 2Kyung Hee 
University Hospital at Gangdong, Gangdong-gu, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
Background: Vaccination is the long-term established measure for disease 
prevention and worldwide outbreak of COVID-19 necessitates mass scale vaccination. 
However, there is a public concern on the risk of renal adverse reactions from several types of vaccination.
Methods: We analyzed VigiBase (n = 120,715,116 reports), the World Health 
Organization pharmacovigilance database from Dec 1967 to Jul 2022 using disproportionate Bayesian reporting. Information component (IC) compares observed and expected values to find the associations of vaccines with acute kidney injury (AKI), glomerulonephritis (GN) and tubulointerstitial nephritis (TIN).
Results: We found 5,484 AKI (13.8% fatal), 2,846 GN (29.4% fatal) and 289 TIN 
reports (23.2% fatal) as vaccine-associated adverse reactions. Almost reports indicated single drug suspected cases. Cumulative number of reports on AKI, GN and TIN gradually increased and Americas was most prevalent regions of reporting. Examining the different vaccines separately, reporting count of COVID-19 mRNA vaccines sharply increased and it solely was associated with significantly higher reporting of AKI (IC
025 1.09) and TIN 
(IC025 0.48). Patients aged 12-17 years had the highest IC values for COVID-19 mRNA 
vaccine-associated AKI and TIN. Hepatitis B, encephalitis and COVID-19 mRNA vaccine were prominently over-reported among ten types of vaccines with significant signals of GN.
Conclusions: AKI, GN and TIN substantially occurred following vaccination and it 
was most noticeable in patients exposed to COVID-19 mRNA vaccines. Clinicians should consider the increased risk of renal adverse reactions after vaccination.



AKI Prediction and Assessment: Traditional and Novel Tools
Key: TH - Thursday; FR - Friday; SA - Saturday; OR - Oral; PO - Poster; PUB - Publication Only
Underline represents presenting author.
30
J Am Soc Nephrol 34: 2023Oral Abstract/Friday
FR-OR03  Oral Abstract  Friday
AKI Prediction and Assessment: Traditional and Novel Tools
Use of a Recurrent Neural Network to Predict Development of Nephrotoxic 
AKI in AdultsBenjamin
 
R.
 
Griffin ,1 Mary  V .  Sarrazin,1 Diana  I. Jalal,1 Jason  Misurac.2 
1University of Iowa Hospitals and Clinics, Iowa City, IA; 2The University of 
Iowa Stead Family Children’ s Hospital, Iowa City, IA.
Background: The Nephrotoxic Injury Negated by Just-in Time Action (NINJA) 
program identifies children with high exposure to nephrotoxic medications and has 
been shown to reduce rates of acute kidney injury (AKI) by 25% through preemptive medication adjustments. However, attempts to translate NINJA to the adult population have been hampered by the much larger patient volume at adult hospitals combined with NINJA’s relatively low positive predictive value (PPV), which generates a high number of false alerts. We used a recurrent neural network (RNN) machine learning algorithm to improve nephrotoxic AKI prediction in patients with high nephrotoxin exposure.
Methods: We collected over 100 variables including demographics, laboratory data, 
vital signs, and medication usage on adult patients admitted to the University of Iowa Hospital from 2017-2022. Patients admitted for >48 hours who met the NINJA definition for high nephrotoxin exposure (≥ 3 nephrotoxins on 1 day or intravenous aminoglycoside or vancomycin for ≥ 3 days) were included in the final dataset. A gated recurrent unit (GRU)-based RNN was trained on 85% of the data, and then tested on the remaining 15%, with the goal of predicting AKI development (defined as a creatinine increase of ≥0.3 mg/
dL or ≥1.5x baseline) within 48 hours. We then used an artificial neural network (ANN) 
to determine feature importance.
Results: There were 37,300 patient-days meeting criteria for NINJA high nephrotoxin 
exposure. In the testing cohort, 29% of exposures developed AKI within 48 hours  
(2.4 false alerts per true AKI). The RNN model predicted 48-hour AKI with a PPV of 0.58 (0.7 false alerts per true AKI) and a NPV of 0.87. Hospital day, lowest hemoglobin, lowest platelet count, lowest blood pressure, and highest white blood cell count were the 5 most important variables in the ANN model. Vancomycin, piperacillin-tazobactam, iopamidol, and lisinopril were the most important medication variables.
Conclusions: Our RNN machine learning model was able to dramatically reduce 
the number of false alerts for nephrotoxic AKI in adults, which may facilitate NINJA translation to adult hospitals by providing more targeted intervention with less resource utilization.
FR-OR04  Oral Abstract  Friday
AKI Prediction and Assessment: Traditional and Novel Tools
Genome-Wide Association Study of Hospitalized AKI
Edward
 
D.
 
Siew ,1,2 Jacklyn  N. Hellwege,2,1 Adriana  Hung,1,2 Bethany  Birkelo,2 
Sharidan
 
Parr,5 Cassianne  Robinson-Cohen,2,1 Katalin  Susztak,3,4 
Robert
 
Greevy,2,1 Andrew  J. V incz,2,1 Michael  E. Matheny,1,2 Digna  R. V elez 
edwards.2,1 1VA Tennessee Valley Healthcare System, Nashville, TN; 
2Vanderbilt University Medical Center, Nashville, TN; 3University of 
Pennsylvania Perelman School of Medicine, Philadelphia, P A; 4Corporal 
Michael J Crescenz VA Medical Center, Philadelphia, P A; 5Nebraska Western 
Iowa Veterans Affairs, Omaha, NE.
Background: AKI commonly complicates hospitalization and has a potential genetic 
basis for susceptibility.
Methods: We conducted a genome-wide association study of AKI in the Million 
Veteran Program(MVP) and Vanderbilt University’s DNA biobank(BioVU). Among 
patients hospitalized during 2002-2019, AKI cases were defined as KDIGO Stage ≥2, or 
Stage 1 AKI for ≥2 days. Non-AKI controls were identified among hospitalized patients without historical evidence of AKI. Single variant logistic regression analyses were performed on imputed genetic variants, adjusting for sex, age, and the top 10 principal components of ancestry. Results were meta-analyzed using fixed effects analyses. A second meta-analysis was performed with summary statistics from UK Biobank, FinnGen, and BioBank Japan. Bioinformatic analyses were performed to provide functional information for significant variants.
Results: There were 58,891 patients with AKI(53,079 MVP,5,812 BioVU) and 
139,098 non-AKI controls(127,627 in MVP, 11,471 BioVU). Three novel loci reached genome-wide significance (Fig): rs11642015 near FTO(odds ratio[OR] 1.07(95% 
confidence interval [CI], 1.05-1.09), p=8.2x10-17, EAF[effect allele frequency]=0.36); rs20654180 near MPPED2(OR 1.05(95% CI 1.03-1.06), p=2.9x10-8, EAF=0.68]); and 
rs8042910 near INTS14(OR 1.06(95%CI:1.04-1.08), p=3.9x10-8, EAF=0.20). Effects 
were consistent across groups and replicated in diagnosis code-based datasets. Within MVP, FTO remained significant after adjusting for BMI. Genome-wide meta-analysis of Biobank Japan, FinnGen, and UK Biobank (N=67,051 cases, 788,014 controls) identified one additional significant locus: rs76704066 in NALCN [EAF = 1.9%; OR 0.82 
(95%CI:0.77-0.88)]. FTO and MPPED2 remained significant (p= 1.0x10-17 and 9.6x10-
9, respectively), while INTS14 did not (p= 8.1x10-8).
Conclusions: Three loci were associated with AKI including one (MPPED2) 
previously associated with CKD. FTO  may contribute to the risk of AKI independently 
of BMI. Further work to determine how these genes may contribute to AKI is ongoing.
Funding: Veterans Affairs Support
FR-OR05  Oral Abstract  Friday
AKI Prediction and Assessment: Traditional and Novel Tools
Machine Learning-Guided Novel Subphenotypes of Sepsis-Associated 
Persistent AKIWonsuk
 
Oh,1 Hannah  Kittrell,1 Roopa  D. Kohli-Seth,1 Girish  N. Nadkarni,1 
Ankit
 
Sakhuja.2 1Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY; 
2West Virginia University, Morgantown, WV.
Background: Sepsis associated acute kidney injury (SA-AKI) is common and 
is associated with high mortality. AKI lasting 48 hours or longer, known as persistent 
AKI (pAKI), has much worse outcomes. SA-AKI is a heterogenous disease, however, it is unknown whether such heterogeneity exists in SA-pAKI. We aimed to identify subphenotypes (SP) of SA-pAKI using routinely collected data in electronic medical records.
Methods: We conducted a retrospective study using MIMIC IV database. We 
defined AKI and pAKI using both creatinine and urine output based KDIGO criteria. We identified adult patients (≥18y) with sepsis who developed SA-AKI within 48h and SA-pAKI within 96h of ICU admission. We used available features for demographics, comorbidities, SOFA score, vital signs, labs, fluid balance & vasopressors to identify SPs. We used factor analysis of mixed data for dimensionality reduction followed by k-means clustering to identify SPs. Outcomes were 30-day in-hospital mortality and 30-day AKI recovery while adjusting for competing risk of mortality.
Results: Among 6,681 patients with SA-pAKI, we identified 4 distinct SPs. Each SP 
demonstrated distinct characteristics and outcomes (Fig 1a & b). SP1 (n=1,137) included patients with severe AKI, low systolic BP, high INR, and WBC counts. It had highest mortality(47%) and low AKI recovery(37%). SP 2 (n=1,231) had moderate to severe AKI but low vasopressor requirements. It had low mortality (19%) but also low rates of AKI recovery (32%). SP3 (n=1315) included patients with high comorbidity burden but low disease acuity. Their mortality was between that of first two SPs and had high rates of AKI recovery (54%). SP4 (n=1,678) included patients with mild to moderate AKI and low disease acuity. They had highest rates of AKI recovery (56%) and lowest mortality (13%).
Conclusions: We identified 4 distinct SPs of SA-pAKI with differing patient 
characteristics and outcomes. Early recognition of these SPs will allow for personalized management strategies.
Funding: NIDDK Support, Other NIH Support - WO: T32DK007757 TL1DK136048, 
AS: 1K08DK131286, GN: R01DK108803 U01HG007278 U01HG009610 U01DK116100
FR-OR06  Oral Abstract  Friday
AKI Prediction and Assessment: Traditional and Novel Tools
Arterial Stiffness and AKI in the Atherosclerosis Risk in Communities 
(ARIC) StudyEster
 
Oh,1 Aditya  L. Surapaneni,2 Jessica  B. Kendrick,1 Josef  Coresh,4 
Kunihiro
 
Matsushita,4 Morgan  Grams,2 Kristen  L. Nowak,1 
Anna
 
Jovanovich.1,3 1University of Colorado Anschutz Medical Campus 
School of Medicine, Aurora, CO; 2New York University Grossman School of 
Medicine, New York, NY; 3VA Eastern Colorado Health Care System, Aurora, 
CO; 4Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, MD.
Background: Acute kidney injury (AKI) is associated with prolonged hospitalization 
and increased in-hospital mortality risk. However, the prediction of incident AKI is 
inaccurate and additional predictors of AKI are strongly needed. Arterial stiffness, as measured by carotid-femoral pulse wave velocity (cfPWV), is associated with kidney 



AKI Prediction and Assessment: Traditional and Novel Tools
Key: TH - Thursday; FR - Friday; SA - Saturday; OR - Oral; PO - Poster; PUB - Publication Only
Underline represents presenting author.
31
J Am Soc Nephrol 34: 2023Oral Abstract/Friday
function decline and may serve as a plausible predictor of AKI. We hypothesized a higher 
cfPWV at baseline would be independently associated with AKI risk in community-dwelling older adults who participated in the Atherosclerosis Risk in Communities (ARIC) study.
Methods: We included adults with available PWV measures (i.e., cfPWV [primary 
predictor], heart-femoral PWV [hfPWV], heart-carotid PWV [hcPWV], heart-ankle PWV [haPWV], and brachial-ankle PWV [baPWV], femoral-ankle PWV [faPWV]). Cox proportional hazard models were used to examine the association between PWV measures and time to AKI. Given its J-shaped relation with AKI, PWV was modeled as a categorical variable in quartiles (Q), with Q2 serving as the reference category.
Results: A total of 4,245 participants (44% male; 77% white; mean±SD age 75±5 
years; cfPWV 11.9±3.9 m/s) were included. There appeared to be a J-shaped association between cfPWV and AKI risk (Q1, hazard ratio 1.15 [95% confidence interval 0.90-1.46]; Q4, 1.38 [1.08-1.77] vs. Q2) after fully adjusting for demographics, CVD risk factors, and markers for kidney function and peripheral artery disease (Figure).
Conclusions: A higher arterial stiffness, measured by cfPWV , is an independent 
predictor of AKI in community-dwelling older adults.
Funding: NIDDK Support, Veterans Affairs Support, Private Foundation Support
Association between cfPWV and AKI risk. M1: age, sex, race; M2: M1 + cardiovascular 
risk factors (smoking, diabetes, CVD, hypertension, SBP, DBP, BMI, total and HDL cholesterol); M3: M2 + kidney function markers (eGFR, urinary ACR); M4: M3 + 
peripheral artery disease marker (ankle-brachial index).
FR-OR07  Oral Abstract  Friday
AKI Prediction and Assessment: Traditional and Novel Tools
Noninvasive Identification of Acute Tubular Injury Using Plasma 
ProteomicsInsa
 M. Schmidt,1 Aditya  L. Surapaneni,2 Dhairya  A. Upadhyay ,2 
Runqi  Zhao,1 Wan-Jin  Yeo,2 Pascal  Schlosser,3 Anand  Srivastava,4 
Isaac  E. Stillman,5 Eugene  P. Rhee,6 Morgan  Grams,2 Sushrut  S. Waikar .1 
1Boston University, Boston, MA; 2NYU Langone Health, New York, NY; 
3Johns Hopkins University Center for Health Security, Baltimore, MD; 
4University of Illinois Chicago, Chicago, IL; 5Icahn School of Medicine at 
Mount Sinai, New York, NY; 6Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA .
Background: Biomarkers for the non-invasive assessment of acute tubular injury 
(ATI) are needed in patients with kidney disease.
Methods: Using the SomaScan proteomics platform, we measured 6592 
circulating plasma proteins in 434 individuals with biopsy-confirmed kidney diseases 
and pathologist-adjudicated semi-quantitative assessments of histopathologic ATI. We identified proteomic correlates of ATI severity. For the proteins with the strongest associations with ATI, we evaluated cell-specific gene expression in patients with AKI in the Kidney Precision Medicine Project (KPMP).
Results: Fifty-three % of individuals had no ATI, 30% had mild ATI, 13% had 
moderate, and 3% had severe ATI. After multivariable adjustment and correction for multiple testing, 170 proteins were associated with ATI. The proteins with the strongest associations with greater ATI severity were osteopontin (p=9.8E-18), macrophage mannose receptor 1 (p=2.2E-16), and tenascin (p=1.4E-14) (Figure 1). Previously identified proteins such as kidney-injury molecule-1 and tumor necrosis factor receptor superfamily member 1 were also associated with ATI (p=9.9E-10 and 5.7E-06, respectively). The top proteins with inverse associations with ATI were plasma serine protease inhibitor  
(p= 6.1E-11), cholinesterase (p= 1.3E-10), and neuropeptide S (p=1.4E-10). In KPMP snRNA sequencing data, SPP1 (the gene encoding osteopontin) was primarily expressed 
in thick ascending limb (TAL) and proximal tubular (PT) cell clusters (p=4.2E-141 and 5.2E-108, comparing the expression in TAL and PT with all other cell clusters, respectively).
Conclusions: Plasma proteomic approaches may identify novel biomarkers to non-
invasively identify biopsy-proven ATI.
Funding: NIDDK Support
FR-OR08  Oral Abstract  Friday
AKI Prediction and Assessment: Traditional and Novel Tools
AKI Diagnostic Accuracy and Implications of AKI Baseline Creatinine 
(ABC) vs. Other Baseline Creatinine Estimating EquationsErica
 C. Bjornstad
,1 Mithun  K. Acharjee,2 Akm  F. Rahman,2 Michael  Zappitelli,3 
Rajit K. Basu,4 George  J. Schwartz,5 Stuart  Goldstein,6 Chloe  G. Braun,1 
David  J. Askenazi.1 1The University of Alabama at Birmingham Department of 
Pediatrics, Birmingham, AL; 2The University of Alabama at Birmingham 
Department of Biostatistics, Birmingham, AL; 3Toronto Hospital for Sick 
Children, Toronto, ON, Canada; 4Ann and Robert H Lurie Children’ s Hospital 
of Chicago, Chicago, IL; 5University of Rochester, Rochester, NY; 6Cincinnati 
Children’ s Hospital Medical Center, Cincinnati, OH.
Background: Acute kidney injury (AKI) definitions rely on a known baseline 
creatinine (Crb), which is missing in up to 75% of hospitalized children. A new method 
(ABC equation) for estimating Crb was derived from children without kidney disease. 
We aim to externally validate the ABC method in an international cohort and assess how 
different Crb estimating equations alter AKI epidemiology.
Methods: AWARE is a prospective international study of 4984 critically ill children 
(age 0-25 years) from 32 PICUs. The validation of the ABC equations uses a subset of this cohort (n=2451) with a known Cr
b which serves as the gold standard, using statistical 
measures of accuracy and precision. The entire cohort is used for assessing changes in AKI epidemiology for different Cr
b estimating equations (3 ABC equations and  
4 common eGFR equations). Univariate statistics determine how different Crb equations 
impact the incidence of AKI and its association with key clinical outcomes including  
28-day mortality.
Results: The simplified ABC equation (requiring only age) performed similarly
to existing Crb equations (e.g., new Schwartz). When an admission hospital creatinine 
value was available, the ABC equations outperformed all existing equations up to 19% in accuracy and 32% in precision. AKI incidence varied from 2-10% depending on Cr
b definition. Adverse clinical outcomes were rare: 28-day mortality (n=169) was 
3.4% and ICU length of stay>=14 days (n=147) was 2.9%. Compared to previous Cr
b equations, ABC equations consistently perform better (or similar) to predict poor 
clinical outcomes. For example, relative risk (RR) of AKI using the ABC equation for 28-day mortality was 4.5 (95% CI 2.8-7.2); this was 5-29% higher RR than AKI definedby other Cr
b equations.
Conclusions: ABC equations outperform existing Crb estimating equations. This 
international cohort confirms earlier findings that ABC equations are improved methods for estimating Cr
b values. The data suggest ABC equations performed similarly, or 
perhaps better, in predicting select poor clinical outcomes.
FR-OR09  Oral Abstract  Friday
AKI Prediction and Assessment: Traditional and Novel Tools
Vancomycin-Tacrolimus Combination Increases AKI Risk in  
Post-Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation (HSCT) PatientsTuisha
 Gupta,1 Yuan  Liu,2 Kevin  Hall,2 Minal  J. Surati,2 Edmund  K. Waller .2 
1Tbilisi State Medical University, Tbilisi, Georgia; 2Emory University, 
Atlanta, GA .
Background: Acute kidney injury (AKI) is a common complication in hematopoietic 
stem cell transplant (HSCT) recipients, leading to prolonged hospital stays, increased 
healthcare costs and mortality rates. Drug-related effects are major contributors of AKI in this patient population. Immunosuppressive and antibacterial drugs, such as vancomycin and tacrolimus, have well-documented nephrotoxic effects. Combinations of tacrolimus and vancomycin with other drugs are known to induce AKI. However, the combined nephrotoxic effect of vancomycin and tacrolimus warrants further investigation. This study aims to evaluate their simultaneous nephrotoxic effects in HSCT patients.
Methods: Institutional Review Board approval was obtained for retrospective 
analysis of transplant outcomes. This retrospective cohort study includes 1444 HSCT patients (age>18) from 2018-2021 at Emory University Hospital. Patients with end-stage renal disease were excluded from the study. The KDIGO guidelines: increase in serum creatinine levels ≥0.3 mg/dL within 48 hours or ≥50% within 7 days, were used 



AKI Prediction and Assessment: Traditional and Novel Tools
Key: TH - Thursday; FR - Friday; SA - Saturday; OR - Oral; PO - Poster; PUB - Publication Only
Underline represents presenting author.
32
J Am Soc Nephrol 34: 2023Oral Abstract/Friday
to define AKI in the study population. Data was collected from day 0 to day +30 post-
HSCT by reviewing in and out-patient medical records. Univariate and multivariable logistic regression was used to estimate the interaction effect between vancomycin and tacrolimus.
Results: The median patient age was 61, with 55% males, 58% white/35% black. 
Of the total patients, 51% had hypertension, 14% diabetes mellitus, 15% CKD, 8% congestive heart failure (CHF). The overall AKI incidence was 9.94%, with 19.81% among allogeneic transplant recipients and 7.24% among autologous transplant recipients (OR 3.28 p<0.001). Other AKI associated covariates were male gender (OR 1.59 p 0.022), CHF history (OR 2.26, p 0.006), high BMI (OR 1.06, p<0.001) and low creatinine clearance (OR 0.96 p<0.001). Using multivariate logistic regression, the primary outcome measure, the incidence of AKI was significantly higher in patients receiving a combination of vancomycin and tacrolimus (OR 5.50 p<0.001) than patients receiving tacrolimus alone without vancomycin (OR 4.04 p<0.001).
Conclusions: Concurrent administration of vancomycin and tacrolimus greatly 
increases the risk of AKI compared to the individual drugs alone. Thus, the simultaneous use of these medications should be avoided or minimized with close monitoring in allo-HSCT recipients.
FR-OR10  Oral Abstract  Friday
AKI Prediction and Assessment: Traditional and Novel Tools
Heart Failure with Preserved Ejection Fraction (HFpEF) vs. Heart 
Failure with Reduced Ejection Fraction (HFrEF) After AKI Bethany
 
Birkelo,1,2 Robert  Greevy,1,2 Andrew  Guide,1,2 Michael  E. Matheny,1,2 
Trey
 
H.
 
Richardson,1 Evan  Brittain,1 Edward  D. Siew.1,2 1Vanderbilt 
University Medical Center, Nashville, TN; 2VA Tennessee Valley Healthcare 
System, Nashville, TN .
Background: There is an increased risk of incident heart failure (HF) after acute 
kidney injury (AKI). Preclinical studies have shown AKI causes structural changes and 
diastolic dysfunction. The nature and phenotype of HF experienced by AKI survivors is unknown.
Methods: We conducted a case control study of adults at Vanderbilt University 
Medical Center. To ensure patients had established care at VUMC, we required at least one outpatient serum creatinine at least two years prior to the code for HF. Eligible patients were also required to have an echocardiogram within 30 days before or 1 year after HF diagnosis to determine HF subtype. Patients with a history of ESRD were excluded. The primary exposure was hospitalized AKI defined using creatinine-based KDIGO definitions during the exposure ascertainment period. The primary outcome was determined as HF, defined by either 1 inpatient or 2 outpatient diagnosis codes and classified using the echocardiogram closest to the HF diagnosis date (HFpEF if EF ≥45%, 
HFrEF if EF <45%). Baseline vitals, conditions, and medications were ascertained prior to AKI. Multivariable logistic regression was used to estimate the odds of AKI prior to HFpEF versus HFrEF.
Results: We identified 7,509 adults with incident HF (5,544 HFpEF, 1,965 HFrEF). 
AKI (stages 1-3) was associated with a 20% higher odds of HFpEF which was not statistically significant (OR 0.80, 95% CI 0.62 – 1.03). Stage 1 AKI was associated with a 40% higher odds of HFpEF (OR for HFrEF 0.60, 95% CI 0.42 – 0.85) whereas Stage 2-3 AKI was associated with a 17% higher odds of HFrEF, though this finding was not statistically significant (OR 1.17, 95% CI 0.81 – 1.68).
Conclusions: Stage 1 AKI was preferential towards incident HFpEF compared to 
HFrEF, with an association on par with other HFpEF risk factors such as female sex, obesity, atrial fibrillation, and hypertension. More severe AKI trended towards favoring HFrEF. Multimorbidity increases risk of HFpEF and may render patients susceptible to small fluctuations in serum creatinine when hospitalized. Further work is needed to elucidate mechanisms of this relationship.
Funding: Other NIH Support - NHLBI R01 HL146588, Private Foundation Support
FR-OR11  Oral Abstract  Friday
Development, Organoids, and Genetic Models of Kidney Diseases
Role of Biomechanics in the Regulation of Ureteric Bud Branching 
MorphogenesisSatu
 
Kuure, Vladislav
 
Iaroshenko, Kristen
 
Kurtzeborn. Kuure Lab. Helsingin 
yliopisto Laaketieteellinen tiedekunta, Helsinki, Finland .
Background: Branching morphogenesis is a fundamental developmental process 
driving the formation of several organs. Branching pattern in the developing kidney is 
stereotyped and involves geometrically distinct modes: tip bifurcation and trifurcation, and only very rarely lateral branching. The branching epithelium, known as ureteric bud (UB), undergoes a series of complex changes which first transform a single layered epithelial bud to an ampulla where then the terminal bifurcations take place. While the molecular mediators of tissue crosstalk during renal branching are rather well characterized, the mechanisms controlling exact branch-initiating cell identity in UB tips remain unknown. Moreover, the roles of cellular niche, extracellular matrix and biomechanics in branch point determination are poorly understood.
Methods: We utilize a combination of mouse genetics and a custom machine-
learning based segmentation pipeline in MATLAB to quantify 3D UB epithelial cell shapes and sizes in wholemount kidneys to determine how cell shapes change and drive complex branching patterns. Live imaging of fluorescently labelled UB cells, traction force microscopy and primary UB cell cultures on matrices with varying stiffness are utilized to study how basic cellular features drive arborization of ureteric bud epithelium in normal and growth factor deficient kidneys.
Results: Cell shape characterization of 3D epithelium shows that individual cells 
in the bud stage are mostly elliptical but become significantly rounder as ureteric branching proceeds to the ampulla stage. In the next branch phase, the cells convert into elongated shape suggesting that the ampulla remodeling to bifurcated tips involves spatial constraints squeezing bud epithelial cells into tube-like organization. Accordingly, our results demonstrate not only remarkable differences in cell shapes in the MAPK/ERK-deficient UB epithelium incapable of complex branch formation but also clear fluctuations in adhesive forces exerted between epithelial cells themselves and towards their niche composed of nephron progenitors.
Conclusions: Our work describes the basic characteristics of ureteric bud epithelial 
cells during different branch formation phases. Together with our biomechanical studies, this provides a new cellular mechanism through which novel branch points are determined and how growth is regulated in developing kidney.
Funding: Government Support - Non-U.S.
FR-OR12  Oral Abstract  Friday
Development, Organoids, and Genetic Models of Kidney Diseases
Multi-Omic Profiling of Human Renal Organoids Reveals PAX8 as a 
Critical Regulator of Human Renal Mesenchymal-to-Epithelial TransitionJulie
 
Williams ,1 John-Poul  Ng-Blichfeldt,2 Katja  Röper.2 1AstraZeneca PLC, 
Gothenburg, Sweden; 2MRC-LMB, Cambridge, United Kingdom.
Background: The nephron, the functional unit of the kidney that filters blood, 
is a tubular epithelial structure that arises from metanephric mesenchyme through 
a mesenchymal-to-epithelial transition (MET) during kidney development. Wnt signalling specifies nephron fate, however, the relationship between Wnt signalling and establishment of epithelial junctions and apical-basal polarity during renal MET is unclear, and in general, developmental MET processes in vivo  are poorly understood.
Methods: To investigate transcriptional control of MET, we used human induced 
pluripotent stem cell-derived renal organoids, which recapitulate nephrogenesis and generate epithelial tubes that express molecular markers of nephron cell types. Organoids were harvested for single nucleus multi-omic (paired RNA-seq and ATAC-seq) profiling to investigate transcription factors driving MET. CRISPR-interference was used to perturb candidate transcription factors.
Results: Human renal organoids recapitulate MET with upregulation of epithelial 
genes including CDH1 (E-cadherin), establishment of apical-basal polarity and epithelial junctions. Organoids exhibit dynamic gene expression and chromatin accessibility signatures throughout MET driven by transcriptional activators and repressors. PAX8 is a critical upstream regulator of human renal MET. Previous studies found PAX8 was dispensable for mouse renal MET. We show using CRISPR-interference that PAX8 is essential for initiation of MET in human kidney organoids. Moreover, Wnt signalling must be deactivated for completion of MET; persistent Wnt activation prevented completion of epithelial polarisation.
Conclusions: These results reveal how the developing kidney balances fate-
commitment and morphogenesis with implications for understanding both developmental kidney diseases and aberrant epithelial plasticity following adult renal tubular injury.
Funding: Commercial Support - AstraZeneca PLC
FR-OR13  Oral Abstract  Friday
Development, Organoids, and Genetic Models of Kidney Diseases
Interpreting Geometric Rules of Early Kidney Formation for Synthetic 
MorphogenesisAlex
 
Hughes.1,2 Hughes Lab, Penn Bioengineering. 1University of 
Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, P A; 2University of Pennsylvania Perelman 
School of Medicine, Philadelphia, P A.
Background: The kidney develops through coordinated growth of ureteric epithelial 
tubules (the future urinary collecting ducts), stroma, and nephron progenitors in the 
cap mesenchyme that surrounds each ureteric tip as they branch. Dynamic interactions between these tissues set nephron numbers for life, impacting the probability of adult disease. How then are the rates of nephron formation and ureteric tubule duplication balanced?
Methods: Here we study the geometric and mechanical consequences of tubule tip 
packing at the embryonic kidney surface for tip organization and nephron formation. We study whole-mount mouse embryonic kidneys and human iPSC-derived nephron progenitor organoids using confocal immunofluorescence, mechanical microindentation, Brillouin microscopy, laser microdissection, and spatial RNA sequencing.
Results: We find that over developmental time, kidney curvature reduces and ‘tip 
domains’ pack more closely, which together create a semi-crystalline tip geometry at the kidney surface. We apply a geometric parameter of tip domains called the shape index to predict a rigidity transition to more solid-like tissue properties at later developmental stages and confirm by micromechanical measurements. At the level of individual tips we use the shape index to define a tip ‘life-cycle’ between branching events, and find that nephrogenesis rate varies over this life-cycle. Applying force inference techniques 



Development, Organoids, and Genetic Models of Kidney Diseases
Key: TH - Thursday; FR - Friday; SA - Saturday; OR - Oral; PO - Poster; PUB - Publication Only
Underline represents presenting author.
33
J Am Soc Nephrol 34: 2023Oral Abstract/Friday
adapted from a cell vertex model and validating with laser ablation shows that tip domains 
experience a cyclical mechanical transient over each life-cycle. We then hypothesized that tip duplication periodically creates a mechanical microenvironment permissive to nephrogenesis. Indeed, mimicking a mechanical transient in human iPSC-derived nephron progenitor organoids increased Wnt-driven commitment to early nephron cell aggregates.
Conclusions: The data suggest that temporal waves of mechanical stress within 
nephron progenitor populations could constitute a clock that synchronizes nephron formation and ureteric tubule duplication. Ongoing work to understand the spatial and temporal regulation of nephron induction will clarify variation in nephron endowment between kidneys and advance engineered replacement kidney tissues for regenerative medicine.
Funding: NIDDK Support, Other NIH Support - NIGMS
FR-OR14  Oral Abstract  Friday
Development, Organoids, and Genetic Models of Kidney Diseases
ZEB2 Signaling Is Essential for Ureteral Smooth Muscle Cell Differentiation 
and MaintenanceSudhir
 
Kumar , Xueping
 Fan, 
Emily
 Zaltz, 
Paul
 Song, 
Yuqiao
 Jiang, 
Weining
 Lu.
 
Boston University, Boston, MA.
Background: Mowat-Wilson Syndrome (MWS) is an autosomal dominant complex 
disorder caused by mutations in the ZEB2 that plays a critical role in cell fate determination 
and differentiation during development . Congenital anomalies of the kidney and urinary 
tract (CAKUT), such as hydroureter and hydronephrosis, have been reported in MWS patients. However, the role of ZEB2 in urinary tract development and the cellular and molecular mechanism underlining the CAKUT phenotype in MWS remains unknown.
Methods: We performed ZEB2 protein expression analysis in the developing mouse 
ureter. We generated Zeb2 ureteral mesenchyme-specific conditional knockout mice by 
crossing Zeb2 floxed mice with Tbx18Cre mice (Zeb2 cKO) and analyzed the urinary 
tract phenotypes in Zeb2 cKO mice and their wild-type littermate controls by gross and histological examination. Ureteral cellular and molecular phenotypes were studied using cell-specific markers such as TAGLN, ACTA2, FOXD1, POSTN, CDH1, TBX18, and SOX9.
Results: We found that ZEB2 is expressed in TBX18
+ ureteral mesenchymal cells 
at E14.5 and E15.5 during mouse fetal development. Deletion of Zeb2 in developing ureteral mesenchymal cells causes hydroureter and hydronephrosis phenotypes, leading to obstructive uropathy, kidney failure, and early mortality. Cellular and molecular marker analyses showed that the TAGLN
+ and ACTA2+ ureteral smooth muscle cells (SMCs) 
layer is not formed in Zeb2 cKO mice at E15.5, but the FOXD1+ and POSTN+ tunica 
adventitia cells layer is significantly expanded compared to wild-type littermate controls. CDH1
+ urothelium cells are reduced considerably in the Zeb2 cKO ureters at E15.5. 
Mechanistically, we found that Zeb2 cKO mice have significantly decreased TBX18 expression but an increased SOX9 expression in the developing ureter at E14.5 and E15.5 compared to wild-type littermate controls.
Conclusions: Our results show that ZEB2 is essential for mouse ureter development 
by maintaining ureteral mesenchymal cell differentiation into normal ureteral SMCs. Our study also shed new light on the pathological mechanism underlying the developmental abnormalities of the urinary tract and CAKUT phenotype in MWS patients.
Funding: NIDDK Support
FR-OR15  Oral Abstract  Friday
Development, Organoids, and Genetic Models of Kidney Diseases
The Multimodal Role of TBX6 in Kidney and Urinary Tract Development 
and DiseaseGregory
 B.
 
Whittemore ,1,2 Jeremiah  Martino,1 Yask  Gupta,1 Tze Yin  Lim,1 
Ekatherina
 
Batourina,2 Qingxue  Liu,1 Juntao  Ke,1 Rosemary  V .  Sampogna,1 
Virginia
 
E.
 
Papaioannou,3 Cathy  L. Mendelsohn,2 Simone  Sanna-Cherchi.1 
1Columbia University Division of Nephrology, New York, NY; 2Columbia 
University Department of Urology, New York, NY; 3Columbia University 
Department of Genetics and Development, New York, NY.
Background: TBX6 is a transcription factor involved in fate-determination of 
neuromesoderm precursors (NMP). We recently implicated haploinsufficiency of TBX6 
as a driver of the congenital anomalies of the kidney and urinary tract (CAKUT) observed in the chromosome 16p11.2 microdeletion syndrome. Although deletion in mice results in loss of posterior somites and formation of ectopic neural tubes (eNTBs), Tbx6-dependent mechanisms of genitourinary development remain elusive.
Methods: We generated an allelic series from independent null and hypomorphic 
Tbx6 alleles. We then integrated bulk and single-cell transcriptomics, epigenetics, and transcription factor binding site analysis at E9.5 to identify target tissues and genes. Selected targets were validated by electrophoretic mobility shift assay and in situ hybridization.
Results: We found that severe inactivation of Tbx6 at E9.5 results in a loss of 
inhibitory control of the Kdm7a promotor, leading to overexpression, driving NMPs to 
preferentially differentiate into posterior NTB cells and form eNTBs at the expense of intermediate mesoderm (IM). Furthermore, eNTBs likely secrete trophic factors that induce mal-patterning and ectopic positioning of the metanephric mesenchyme (MM). This therefore disrupts the normal interaction of the MM and ureteric bud (UB) required for kidney development resulting in renal agenesis and duplications of the collecting system. Interestingly, less severe Tbx6 inactivation does not yield eNTBs, but still causes renal hypodysplasia and ureteric obstruction. We found this to be due to a loss of Tbx6-dependent activation of the Fgf9 promoter in the IM, leading to a mild depletion of this population.
Conclusions: Here we show spatially and temporally distinct mechanisms whereby 
Tbx6 influences urinary tract development. Severe inactivation exerts its effect through a Kdm7a-dependent pathway in NMPs, while less severe defects unmask a Kdm7a-
independent, Fgf9-dependent effect on the IM. These findings illustrate the importance 
of spatially and temporally linked gene-dosage on multiorgan development and may also contribute to our understanding of regenerative medicine.
Funding: NIDDK Support
FR-OR16  Oral Abstract  Friday
Development, Organoids, and Genetic Models of Kidney Diseases
TGFβ Signaling Regulates Renal Patterning via Cadm1 During 
NephrogenesisSara
 Qubisi
, Norman
 D.
 Rosenblum. The Hospital 
for Sick Children, Toronto, 
ON, Canada.
Background: Impaired nephrogenesis affects kidney health, causing childhood 
CKD and increasing CKD risk in adults. Foxd1+ kidney  stromal cells regulate nephron 
development by interacting with Six2+ nephrogenic precursors. Previously, we (Rowan CJ 
et al, Development, 2018) demonstrated that Hedgehog-GLI signaling in Foxd1+ stromal 
cells is required to promote murine nephrogenesis through TGFβ signaling, specifically 
via promoting the transformation of mesenchymal cells into epithelial cells (MET) in the Six2
+ nephrogenic zone. However, the underlying molecular mechanisms that guide MET 
are incompletely defined. Here we aim to define molecular mechanisms by which TGFβ signaling regulates nephrogenesis.
Methods: Whole-kidney RNA seq and single-cell RNA seq to examine Tgfβr2 
deficiency in Foxd1
+ stromal and Six2+ nephrogenic kidneys. We validated the 
bioinfrmatics data through immuno-staining and Western blot. Compound mutant mice were generated to investigate the deficiency of Cadm1 alone or both Tgfβr2 and Cadm1, followed by histological analysis, immunostaining, and nephron quantitation.
Results: Whole-kidney RNA seq (n=4) and scRNA seq (n=169 cell, P<0.001) in 
Foxd1
+ stromal and Six2+ nephrogenic Tgfβ r2-deficient kidneys identified Cadm1 
(P<0.00003,P<0.0013) in Foxd1+stromal cells as a TGFβ  signaling downstream target. 
Western blot analysis in HEK-T293 cells (n=2) demonstrated that treatment with TGFβ 1 induced CADM1 expression in a dose-dependent manner. Kidney tissue with 
Stromal and/or nephrogenic cell deficiency of Cadm1 exhibited normal nephrogenesis (n=2-3,P<0.01). Kidney tissue with deficiency of both Tgfβr2 and Cadm1 in Foxd1
+ 
stroma exhibited renal hypodysplasia characterized by 32% reduction in kidney:body weight (n=6,P<0.0001), a 35% reduction in nephron number (n=3,P<0.05), expansion of Six2
+ cells/UB tip (n=2,P<0.05), and loosely packed cortex and irregular stromal 
pattern (n=3). Similarly, kidney tissue with deficiency of both Tgfβr2 and Cadm1 in 
Six2+ nephrogenic cells exhibited renal hypodysplasia characterized by a 27% reduction 
in kidney:body weight (n=3,P<0.01), a 48% reduction in nephron number (n=2,P<0.05) and expansion of Six2
+ cells/UB tip (n=3, P<0.01).
Conclusions: We conclude that Cadm1 is required for normal nephrogenesis in mice. 
Further, our data suggest that CADM1 may play a role in regulating the epithelialization of nephrogenic precursors under the influence of TGFβ signaling
Funding: Government Support - Non-U.S.
FR-OR17  Oral Abstract  Friday
Development, Organoids, and Genetic Models of Kidney Diseases
ATP-Citrate Lyase (ACLY) Is a Key Modulator of Nephron Progenitor 
Cell Fate Decisions In VivoGiovane
 G.
 
Tortelote , Fabiola
 
Diniz, Sylvia
 
Hilliard, Samir
 
S.
 
El-Dahr. 
Tortelote Lab. Tulane University School of Medicine, New Orleans, LA .
Background: Nephron endowment at birth impacts long-term renal and 
cardiovascular health and is contingent on the nephron progenitor cells (NPC) pool. NPC 
fate decisions are influenced by the cell’s metabolome. Acetyl-CoA is a key molecule involved in cellular metabolism. Acetyl-CoA provides energy and serves as a metabolic intermediate necessary for cellular growth and differentiation. However, the in vivo 
requirement of Acetyl-CoA for kidney development is still unknown.
Methods: Six2
GFPCRE;Aclyf/+ males were bred to floxed Acly homozygous female 
mice to generate embryos lacking Acly expression in the NPC and nephrogenic lineage. Immunofluorescence (E14.5, E16.5, and P0) and organ culture (E12.5+24h) were used to characterize the mutant phenotype. NPC and fluorescence intensity quantifications were performed with ImageJ. H&E staining was used for morphological analysis and glomeruli counts.
Results: Removal of Acly (a gene that regulates cytosolic availability of acetyl-CoA) 
from the NPC pool during embryonic development led to a reduction in glomeruli counts (≈ 30%), depletion of cap-mesenchyme (WT = 44 vs MUT = 32 NPC/niche), and increased Wnt4 expression at birth. Cap depletion and UB abnormalities were evident at E14.5 and E16.5. Sodium-acetate supplementation to cultured E13.5 mutant kidneys rescued cap mesenchyme depletion without hindering differentiation. Furthermore, Six2Cre-mediated 
removal of Acly led to the upregulation of Acyl-CoA Synthetase Short Chain Family Member 2 (Acss2) in nascent proximal tubules (PT) exclusively. Upregulation of Acss2 
suggested a compensatory route for acetyl-CoA production during PT nephrogenesis. The upregulation of Acss2 was accompanied by an increased abundance of Hnf4a, a key regulator of proximal tubule maturation.
Conclusions: In conclusion, our findings revealed a crucial role of acetyl-CoA 
metabolism during kidney development and provided insights into the molecular mechanisms underlying early nephrogenesis. In addition, we identified a new molecular target with therapeutic potential to offset the programming process during early life to prevent the development of adult kidney disease.
Funding: NIDDK Support



Development, Organoids, and Genetic Models of Kidney Diseases
Key: TH - Thursday; FR - Friday; SA - Saturday; OR - Oral; PO - Poster; PUB - Publication Only
Underline represents presenting author.
34
J Am Soc Nephrol 34: 2023Oral Abstract/Friday
FR-OR18  Oral Abstract  Friday
Development, Organoids, and Genetic Models of Kidney Diseases
A Single-Cell Atlas of Human Fetal Kidneys Identifies Cell States 
Associated with Rare and Common Human DiseaseJonathan
 
Levinsohn,1 Amin  Abedini,2 Konstantin  A.  Kloetzer,2 Kotaro  Sasaki,2 
Katalin
 
Susztak.2,1 1The Children’ s Hospital of Philadelphia, Philadelphia, P A; 
2University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, P A.
Background: Abnormal kidney development can present as congenital anomalies 
which can severely impact renal function. It is further thought that development may also 
influence more subtle phenotypes that can present later in life. Low birth weight is a risk factor for hypertension and prematurity is a risk factor for CKD.
Methods: We performed single cell RNA sequencing of 5 human fetal kidneys. 
We mapped developmental trajectories using RNA velocity and CellRank, creating a probabilistic model for cell differentiation in nephron development.
Results: We created an atlas of cells of human fetal kidney with a total of 65,348 
cells, the largest, most comprehensive atlas of this tissue to date. This atlas demonstrates contiguous trajectories of cell states starting from a putative progenitor population to mature cell types. By examining diffusive properties within this map, we were able to identify and map previously hypothesized transitions between PTs, PECs and podocytes. We also applied this model to identify the cell states and transitions during fetal development to both common and rare human genetic disease, finding cell states that appear to be important in CAKUT, as well as cell states that influence adult eGFR.
Conclusions: We present the most complete atlas of the human fetal kidney to date. 
Using this atlas, we identify cell states are associated with human genetic disease and that these states are correlated by phenotype, leading to novel insights into developmental mechanisms of human disease.
Funding: NIDDK Support
FR-OR19  Oral Abstract  Friday
Development, Organoids, and Genetic Models of Kidney Diseases
Identification of Genes and Regulatory Elements Affecting Human 
Kidney FunctionGabriel
 
Loeb,1 Pooja  Kathail,2 Richard  W .  Shuai,2 Ryan  K. Chung,2 Reinier  J.  
Grona,1 Sailaja  Peddada,3 V olkan  Sevim,4 Scot  M. Federman,3 Karl  A.  Mader,3 
Audrey
 
Y .
 Chu,4 Jonathan  M. Davitte,4 Shawn  L. Shafer,4 Laralynne  Przybyla,3 
Nilah
 
Ioannidis,2,5 Jeremy  Reiter.1,5 1University of California San Francisco, 
San Francisco, CA; 2University of California Berkeley, Berkeley, CA; 
3Laboratory of Genomics Research/UCSF , San Francisco, CA; 4GSK plc, San 
Francisco, CA; 5Chan Zuckerberg Biohub, San Francisco, CA.
Background: The molecular mechanisms underlying human kidney disease remain 
largely unknown. Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have identified hundreds of 
genomic loci associated with kidney function and disease. However, the genetic variants and genes mediating the effect of most of these loci remain unclear.Methods: We performed a genome-wide association study (GWAS) of kidney 
function estimated using both creatinine and cystatin C in the UK Biobank and used functionally informed fine-mapping to identify putative causal kidney function variants. To determine the effect of genetic variants implicated in kidney function, we used scATAC-seq in human kidneys, genome-wide measurements of H3K27 acetylation (CUT&RUN), and measured the effect of CRISPR-mediated perturbation of regulatory elements on gene expression.
Results: We found that 58% of kidney function SNP-heritability localized to 
candidate regulatory elements of kidney tubule epithelial cells, an additional 6.5% localized to podocyte candidate regulatory elements, and <1% localized within endothelial, stromal, or immune cell-specific regulatory elements. We identified putative causal kidney function variants using functionally-informed fine-mapping and used these variants to identify regulatory elements and genes involved in kidney function. In human kidneys and primary tubule epithelial cells, we assessed how kidney function variants affect chromatin accessibility and enhancer function. We found that kidney function variants alter chromatin accessibility and enhancer function within tubule epithelial regulatory elements. A pooled screen targeting kidney function noncoding regulatory elements with CRISPR interference (CRISPRi) identified novel genes involved in human kidney function.
Conclusions: By integrating human genetics and studies of enhancer function, this 
work provides a framework for identifying variants, regulatory elements, and genes involved in human kidney disease. The combination of fine-mapping of GWAS-nominated variants, regulatory element identification, and mapping enhancers to regulated genes provides a framework for moving from GWAS to molecular mechanisms of disease.
Funding: NIDDK Support, Other NIH Support - NIAMS
FR-OR20  Oral Abstract  Friday
Development, Organoids, and Genetic Models of Kidney Diseases
Genome-Wide Association Study Across Biobanks Identifies New 
Susceptibility Loci for Urinary Tract InfectionsKatherine
 
Xu, Atlas
 
Khan, Ning
 
Shang, Cecilia
 
C.
 
Berrouet, Tian
 
Shen, 
Jonathan
 
M.
 
Barasch, Peter
 A.
 
Sims, Krzysztof
 
Kiryluk. Columbia University 
Irving Medical Center, New York, NY.
Background: Urinary tract infections (UTIs) represent the most common bacterial 
infections worldwide and if untreated, can lead to pyelonephritis, urosepsis, and severe 
complications. Urologic abnormalities, immunosuppression, sexual activity, and other known risk factors do not completely explain why some individuals are more susceptible to severe or recurrent UTIs. Genetic predisposition to UTIs has not been well studied.
Methods: We designed an electronic phenotype for UTIs and defined 75,485 cases 
and 634,538 controls across several biobanks, including eMERGE, UKBB, BioVU, and All of Us. Cases were defined by ICD9/10 codes by ≥2 events ±1 week apart in the 
absence of known clinical risk factors. We performed a GWAS for UTI across diverse ancestries using REGENIE, controlling for age, sex, and genetic ancestry, followed by a fixed effects meta-analysis across individual biobanks. We also performed single cell RNA-seq (scRNAseq, 10x Genomics) of kidneys from mice ±UTI (n=10). We used 
UPEC isolate UTI89 in bacterial growth rate and recombinant protein binding assays.
Results: Our UTI GWAS meta-analysis defined several genome-wide significant 
loci, including the PSCA locus (P=2.9E-11). This gene is specifically expressed in urothelium and kidney papilla. Based on the latest kidney eQTL datasets, the risk allele at this locus was associated with lower PSCA expression in the tubulointerstitial 
compartment (P=8.8E-39). Our scRNAseq data demonstrated its expression in the kidney pelvic epithelial cells in both infected and noninfected mice, and RNA in situ localized kidney PSCA exclusively to the ascending thin limbs. In binding assays, we found  
E. coli bound to human PSCA, a heavily N-glycosylated protein (initial calculations show >1000 PSCA molecules/bacterium). Co-incubation with PSCA in vitro limited bacterial growth in a dose-dependent manner (0.35
µ
M PSCA + 1E7 CFUs: 21% reduction at  
8 hours (OD600 0.71±0.01 vs 0.56±0.02, p=0.004)).
Conclusions: Our large-scale multi-biobank-based GWAS combined with kidney 
scRNAseq data and bacteria binding assays identified PSCA as a candidate causal gene 
in human UTIs. PSCA is expressed in various urinary tract epithelia and inhibits bacterial growth in vitro. Our findings suggest that PSCA plays an important role in human innate immunity against bacterial UTIs.
Funding: NIDDK Support
FR-OR21  Oral Abstract  Friday
Fluid, Electrolyte, and Acid-Base Disorders: Basic Research
Empagliflozin Blunts Renal Mg2+ Wasting and Restores Distal Tubule 
Sodium Chloride Cotransporter (NCC) and TRPM6 Expression in Rats with Cisplatin-Induced HypomagnesemiaJames
 
A.
 McCormick,1 Erika  F. Jesus,2 Marcos  V .  Caetano,2 Weverton  M.   
Luchi,3 Adriana  C. Girardi.2 1Oregon Health & Science University School of 
Medicine, Portland, OR; 2Universidade de Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil; 
3Universidade Federal do Espirito Santo, Vitoria, Brazil.
Background: The chemotherapeutic agent cisplatin is known to cause 
hypomagnesemia and renal Mg2+ wasting. Damage to the distal convoluted tubule (DCT), 
a key site of regulated Mg2+ reabsorption, may contribute. Recent clinical studies suggest 
that SGLT2 inhibitors increase serum Mg2+ concentration in patients with diabetes. 
However, the potential therapeutic use of SGLT2 inhibitors in a scenario of cisplatin-
induced hypomagnesemia has not been investigated. This study tested the hypothesis that the SGLT2 inhibitor empagliflozin (EMPA) attenuates cisplatin-induced hypomagnesemia in rats through effects on the DCT.



Fluid, Electrolyte, and Acid-Base Disorders: Basic Research
Key: TH - Thursday; FR - Friday; SA - Saturday; OR - Oral; PO - Poster; PUB - Publication Only
Underline represents presenting author.
35
J Am Soc Nephrol 34: 2023Oral Abstract/Friday
Methods: Male Wistar rats (10 weeks of age) were treated weekly with cisplatin  
(2.5 mg/kg/or vehicle, i.p.) for five weeks. After three weeks of treatment, cisplatin (Cis) 
and vehicle-treated (Ctrl) rats were randomized and orally treated or not with EMPA  
(10 mg/kg/day) for two weeks.
Results: Cis-treated rats developed significant hypomagnesemia (1.42 ± 0.05 vs. 2.19 
±0.03 mg/dl in Ctrl and 2.23 ± 0.03 mg/dl in Ctrl + EMPA, P < 0.0001) and increased 
fractional excretion (FE) of Mg2+ compared to control groups (14.3 ± 1.3 vs. 0.48 ± 0.10% 
in Ctrl and 0.65 ± 0.10% in Ctrl + EMPA, P < 0.0001). EMPA reduced FE Mg (2.2 ± 
0.2 vs. 14.3 ± 1.3% vs. P < 0.0001) and restored Mg2+ serum levels in Cis-treated rats
(2.21 ± 0.05 mg/dl). The mRNA and protein abundance of NCC and TRPM6 and NCC 
phosphorylation were reduced in Cis-treated rats and rescued by EMPA. EMPA-treatedCtrl rats displayed higher NCC and TRPM6 mRNA and protein expression and NCC phosphorylation levels than untreated Ctrl. The effects of cisplatin and EMPA on NCC were confirmed using a hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ) challenge. The natriuretic response to HCTZ in Cis-treated rats was lower and in Ctrl + EMPA higher than the other groups of rats. No difference was found in the natriuretic response to HCTZ between controls and EMPA-treated Cis-rats. Remarkably, immunohistochemistry suggested that EMPAreversed Cis-induced DCT injury.
Conclusions: Empagliflozin blunts renal Mg
2+ wasting and restores serum Mg2+ 
concentration in cisplatin-treated rats. The effects of the SGLT2 inhibitor were associated with reversal of DCT injury, rescue of expression of TRPM6, NCC, and phosphorylated NCC, and normalization of NCC activity.
Funding: NIDDK Support, Government Support - Non-U.S.
FR-OR22  Oral Abstract  Friday
Fluid, Electrolyte, and Acid-Base Disorders: Basic Research
Critical Role of mTORC2 in Maintaining Sodium and Potassium 
Balance: Implications for Aldosterone-Independent Regulation of Epithelial Sodium Channel (ENaC) in the Distal NephronBidisha
 Saha, John  E. Demko, Enzo  Takagi, David  Pearce. University of 
California San Francisco, San Francisco, CA .
Background: mTOR complex-2 (mTORC2) is crucial for maintaining sodium and 
potassium balance in the kidneys and responding to high K+ ingestion. Recent evidence 
supports the idea that, in contrast to the late connecting tubule (CNT) and cortical 
collecting duct (CCD), ENaC activity in the late distal convoluted tubule (DCT2) and early CNT is not aldosterone-dependent. Here, we examined the role of mTORC2 in distal nephron K
+ secretion by disrupting mTORC2 expression in various distal segments and 
examining its effects on potassium secretion during high dietary potassium conditions.
Methods: Rictor, a core component of mTORC2, was selectively knocked out 
(KO’d) in specific segments of the distal nephron or throughout the entire nephron using segment-specific Cre-Lox- KO techniques. Both WT and KO mice were fed a high K
+ diet 
for short-term (4 h) or medium-term (48 h). Various parameters, including urinary and blood electrolytes, renal transporter expression and activity, and phosphorylation status of mTORC2 targets were assessed.
Results: Mice lacking mTORC2 in the DCT2 and CNT (using Calbindin as  
Cre-driver) responded to high K
+ intake in a manner resembling mice in which Rictor was 
KO’d throughout the nephron (using Pax8/LC1): they developed hyperkalemia, increased urine output, elevated BUN levels, lower serum sodium, and elevated plasma aldosterone levels under both short (4 h) and medium (48 h)-term high K
+ diet conditions. After 48 h 
under HK diet, these mice showed severe pathophysiological changes including weight loss, reduced food intake, markedly reduced GFR and listlessness. Phosphorylation of mTORC2 targets, involved in ENaC regulation (SGK1 and Nedd4-2) was also reduced in KO mice. Mice lacking mTORC2 specifically in the AQP2-expressing distal part of the CNT and CCD displayed a milder phenotype with elevated aldosterone but normal plasma [K
+].
Conclusions: The data suggest that mTORC2 activity is crucial for maintaining 
aldosterone-independent ENaC activity in the late DCT and preserving potassium balance during high dietary potassium intake.
Funding: NIDDK Support, Private Foundation Support
FR-OR23  Oral Abstract  Friday
Fluid, Electrolyte, and Acid-Base Disorders: Basic Research
Role of KLHL3-S433 Phosphorylation in Potassium Homeostasis in Mice
Kenichi  Ishizawa
,1,2 Ken  Kaseda,1 Osamu  Yamazaki,1 Shigeru  Shibata.1 
1Teikyo University School of Medicine, Itabashi-ku, Japan; 2Shinsen 
Ikebukuro Clinic, Toshima-ku, Japan.
Background: Kelch-like 3 (KLHL3) is a component of an E3 ubiquitin ligase complex 
that binds and degrades with-no-lysine kinases (WNKs) in the kidney. Previously, we 
reported that volume depletion and potassium(K) changes regulate KLHL3 function by altering phosphorylation at S433, thereby regulating fluid homeostasis. The current study was designed to demonstrate the physiological importance of S433 in KLHL3 function in vivo in mice.
Methods: S433 of KLHL3 was substituted to non-phosphorylatable Ala by CRISPR/
Cas9 (KLHL3-S433A knock-in mice: KI). Baseline characteristics, as well as the response to K loading and to salt restriction, were compared between wild-type (WT) and KI. Efects of intestinal K binding by sodium zirconium cyclosilicate (SZC) was also tested.
Results: KI showed a significant increase in plasma K levels that were attributable 
to the decreased renal excretion. KI also showed a decrease in plasma bicarbonate and an increase in blood pressure compared with WT. In KI, KLHL3 protein abundance (but not mRNA levels) was significantly reduced, which was accompanied by the increase in KS-WNK1, WNK4, and NCC, suggesting that S433 is important for the protein stability of KLHL3. In immunofluorescence, WNK1 puncta was observed not only in distal convoluted tubule but also in AQP2-positive collecting duct. In the renal cortex, K channel ROMK was decreased, not increased, in KI compared with WT. Given that KLHL3S433A can target WNK4 for degradation in vitro, we evaluated the response to K 
loading and to salt restriction. K challenge via 1% KCl did not alter plasma K in WT, while KI Plasma K increased to 1.7 mmol/L. In the kidney, NCC was significantly decreased by K in WT, whereas it remained unchanged in KI. Furthermore, although plasma K levels were significantly reduced by SZC in KI, NCC remained unaltered. Finally, increased aldosterone by a low-salt diet not alter plasma K in WT, whereas KI showed a significant reduction in plasma K in response to the same diet.
Conclusions: KLHL3-S433 regulates K homeostasis by controlling NCC and likely 
ROMK. The significant changes in plasma K levels in response to K loading and to volume depletion in KI indicate that the context-dependent regulation of renal K handling in high aldosterone states is compromised in this model, demonstrating the critical role of KLHL3
S433 phosphorylation in the molecular basis of aldosterone paradox.
FR-OR24  Oral Abstract  Friday
Fluid, Electrolyte, and Acid-Base Disorders: Basic Research
PIEZO1 Channels Are Necessary for BK Channel-Mediated Flow- 
Induced K+ Secretion (FIKS) in the Cortical Collecting Duct (CCD)Rolando
 Carrisoza-Gaytan
,1 Stephanie  Mutchler,2 Marianela  G. Dalghi,2 
Francisco  Carattino,1 Gerard  Apodaca,2 Thomas  R. Kleyman,2 
Lisa M. Satlin.1 1Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai Department of 
Pediatrics, New York, NY; 2University of Pittsburgh Department of Medicine, 
Pittsburgh, P A.
Background: BK channel-mediated FIKS in intercalated cells (IC) of the CCD 
requires an elevation in intracellular calcium concentration [Ca2+]i triggered by 
hydrodynamic forces associated with an increase in tubular fluid flow rate (TFFR). This 
increase in [Ca2+]i is proposed to be due to influx of extracellular Ca2+ through apical and 
basolateral mechanosensitive Ca2+ channels and release of Ca2+ from internal stores. We 
previously identified functional expression of the mechanosensitive Ca2+ channel PIEZO1 
at the basolateral membranes of CCD principal (PC) and ICs (ASN Kidney Week, 2021). We hypothesize that PIEZO1 contributes to the flow-induced increase in [Ca
2+]i necessary 
for BK channel-mediated FIKS.
Methods: To test this hypothesis, control and conditional IC-cell Piezo1 KO mice 
were fed a high K+ diet (HK, 5% K+) for 10 d. Isolated CCDs were microperfused in vitro 
to measure flow-induced increases in [Ca2+]i and net transepithelial transport (JX) of Na+ 
and K+ at slow and fast tubular fluid flow rates (0.9 and 5.5 nl/min.mm).
Results: Both PCs and ICs from control mice exhibited typical biphasic increases in 
[Ca2+]i in response to an acute increase in TFFR. However, flow-induced [Ca2+]i transients 
were significantly dampened in ICs from conditional IC-cell Piezo1 KO mice (p≤0.001, 
n=4/group). Similar rates (in pmol/min.mm) of flow-stimulated JNa were observed in 
CCDs from control (49.9±5.5) and KO (51.2±5.2, p=0.7; n=6, including 3 male and  
3 female/group) mice with no significant differences between sex. FIKS, present in control 
CCDs (5.3±1.2), was absent in tubules from conditional KO mice (1.0±1.2; p<0.005). 
IC-cell Piezo1 KO male mice exhibited higher blood [K+] vs controls, 30 and 60 mins 
after gavage administration of 5% KCl solution (7.8±0.91 and 6.4±0.89 vs 6.5±0.35 and 
5.1±0.17 mmol/L, n=6/group; p=0.01 and 0.02 respectively).
Conclusions: We conclude that mechanoactivated PIEZO1 channels mediate 
basolateral influx of Ca2+ in CCD ICs, and are indispensable for BK channel-mediated 
FIKS. We further speculate that basolateral PIEZO1 channels are activated by increases in membrane tension associated with an increase in TFFR.
Funding: NIDDK Support
FR-OR25  Oral Abstract  Friday
Fluid, Electrolyte, and Acid-Base Disorders: Basic Research
The Role of Renal Mechanotransduction in Blood Volume Sensing
Rose  Z. Hill
,1,2 Sebastian  Burquez,1,2 Sepenta  Shirvan,1,2 Jeffrey  H. Miner,3 
Ardem  Patapoutian.1,2 1Scripps Research Institute Department of Molecular 
and Cellular Neuroscience, La Jolla, CA; 2Howard Hughes Medical Institute 
- Scripps Research, La Jolla, CA; 3Washington University in St Louis School 
of Medicine, St Louis, MO .
Background: The kidneys tightly control the composition of our internal environment to 
maintain homeostasis in the face of external variability. For example, the regulation of blood 
volume begins in the kidneys and is essential for vertebrate life in terrestrial environments where salt and water availability are unpredictable. Renin release by specialized juxtaglomerular cells of the kidney is the rate-limiting step in an essential hormonal cascade that modulates blood volume, filtration, and salt balance. For several decades, it was known that renin is released in response to a loss of mechanical cues triggered by relaxation of the afferent arteriole. However, the identity and physiological significance of the mechanosensor in these cells was unknown. Here we examine the expression, function, and requirement of force-gated ion channels in renal juxtaglomerular cells.
Methods: We use in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry to characterize 
the localization of force-gated ion channels in the juxtaglomerular apparatus (JGA). We generated conditional knockout mouse lines targeting stromal progenitors, cells of renin lineage, and adult-inducible pericyte-like cells, encompassing both the mesangium and the renin-expressing JG cells. We then subjected male and female mice to measurements of RAAS pathways hormones, glomerular filtration rate, and systemic blood pressure. Additionally, we isolated glomeruli from the kidneys of transgenic mice and cultured primary renin-expressing and mesangial cells for whole cell voltage clamp electrophysiology in order to measure mechanically activated currents due to force-gated ion channels.
Results: We find that loss of mechanotransduction in renin-expressing JG cells perturbs 
renal function and RAAS under normal conditions and subcutaneous polyethylene glycol-evoked hypovolemia. Specifically, we observe that genetic loss of mechanotransduction 



Fluid, Electrolyte, and Acid-Base Disorders: Basic Research
Key: TH - Thursday; FR - Friday; SA - Saturday; OR - Oral; PO - Poster; PUB - Publication Only
Underline represents presenting author.
36
J Am Soc Nephrol 34: 2023Oral Abstract/Friday
enhances renin release and RAAS function and promotes glomerular hyperfiltration. 
Furthermore, we find that primary cultured renin-expressing and mesangial cells are mechanosensitive and express functional force-gated ion channels.
Conclusions: Our findings highlight the importance of mechanotransduction within 
the JGA to renal blood volume sensing and represent the first molecular and cellular characterization of JGA mechanosensitivity and the consequences of its loss in vivo .
Funding: Private Foundation Support
FR-OR26  Oral Abstract  Friday
Fluid, Electrolyte, and Acid-Base Disorders: Basic Research
Kidney Tubular YAP Controls the Expression of Collecting Duct 
Aquaporins and Water HomeostasisYin
 Xia. 
The Chinese University of Hong Kong Faculty of Medicine, Hong 
Kong, China.
Background: Final urine volume and concentration are defined by water reabsorption 
through the water channel proteins aquaporin (AQP)-2, -3 and -4 in the collecting duct. 
However, the transcriptional regulation of these AQPs is not well understood. The Hippo/YAP pathway plays an important role in organ size control and tissue homeostasis. When the Hippo pathway including the Mst1/Mst2 kinases is inhibited, YAP is activated and functions as a transcription co-activator. Our previous work revealed a pathological role of tubular YAP activation in chronic kidney disease, but the physiological role of YAP in the kidney remains to be established.
Methods: Tubule-specific Yap knockout (Yap cKO) mice were generated by crossing 
Yap
f/f mice with Ksp-Cre mice. Tubule-specific Mst1/Mst2 double (dKO) and Mst1/Mst2/
Yap triple (tKO) mice were generated by crossing Mst1f/f;Mst2f/f or Mst1f/f;Mst2f/f;Yapf/f 
mice with Ksp-Cre mice respectively. Primary mouse medullary collecting duct cells 
were isolated from control and Yap cKO mice. RNA sequencing was performed on the medullae of control and Yap cKO mice at 6 weeks of age. ChIP-qPCR was performed using an YAP antiboty to determine whether YAP binds to the promotors of the Aqp2 and Aqp4 genes. Immunoprecipitation experiments were carried out to examine the interactions of YAP and GATA2, GATA3 or NFATc1.
Results: Tubule-specific Yap knockout mice showed increased urine output and 
decreased urinary osmolality. Decreases in Aqp2, -3 and -4 mRNA and protein abundance in the kidney were evident in Yap knockout mice. Analysis of Mst1/Mst2 double knockout and Mst1/Mst2/Yap triple knockout mice showed that expression of Aqp2 and Aqp4 but not Aqp3 was dependent on YAP. Furthermore, YAP was recruited to the promoters of the Aqp2 and Aqp4 genes and stimulated their transcription. Interestingly, YAP was found to interact with transcription factors GATA2, GATA3 and NFATc1. These three factors promoted Aqp2 transcription in a YAP dependent manner in collecting duct cells. These three factors also promoted Aqp4 transcription whereas only GATA2 and GATA3 enhanced Aqp3 transcription.
Conclusions: Our results suggest that YAP promotes Aqp2 and Aqp4 transcription, 
interacts with GATA2, GATA3 and NFATc1 to control Aqp2 expression, while Aqp-2, -3 and -4 exploit overlapping mechanisms for their baseline transcriptional regulation.
Funding: Government Support - Non-U.S.
FR-OR27  Oral Abstract  Friday
Fluid, Electrolyte, and Acid-Base Disorders: Basic Research
Calcium-Binding Protein 39 (Cab39) Is Required for 
Na+-Cl- Cotransporter (NCC) Phosphorylation in MiceMohammed
 Z. Ferdaus
,1 Paul  A. Welling,2 Eric  J. Delpire.1 1Vanderbilt 
University Medical Center, Nashville, TN; 2Johns Hopkins Medicine, 
Baltimore, MD.
Background: The Na+-Cl- cotransporter (NCC), expressed along the distal 
convoluted tubule (DCT) in the kidney, is essential for sodium and potassium homeostasis 
and blood pressure (BP) regulation. We showed previously that WNK4 (with-no-lysine kinase 4) phosphorylates and activates SPAK (STE20/SPS1-related proline/alanine-rich kinase), which in turn phosphorylates and activates NCC. According to in vitro  
studies, calcium-binding protein 39 (Cab39) is a scaffold that facilitates SPAK activation by stabilizing a fully active kinase conformation. Cab39 and its homolog, Cab39-like (Cab39l), are both are expressed in the DCT. A previous study published in abstract form showed that Cab39l-knockout (Cab39l-KO) mice did not exhibit differences in electrolyte homeostasis or BP compared with wild-type mice. Here we created a Cab39/Cab39l double knockout mouse to test if the adaptor proteins are necessary for WNK-SPAK-NCC signaling in vivo.
Methods: Inducible NCC-Cre was used to remove Cab39 along the DCT, creating 
DCT-specific double knockout (DKO) mice against a background of global Cab39l-KO mice. With blood electrolyte analysis, protein quantification and localization analyses were carried out using Western blotting and immunofluorescence, respectively in wild-type or single Cab39l-KO and Cab39/Cab39l double knockout (DKO) mice.
Results: We showed that phosphorylated NCC abundance, a proxy for NCC function, 
and total NCC abundance were significantly lower in DKO mice. Despite having higher levels of WNK4 and equal levels of total and phosphorylated (active) SPAK, DKO mice on a low K
+ diet, a known activator of NCC function, had lower blood [K+] and 
significantly less phosphorylated and total NCC abundance. Importantly, SPAK was distributed in puncta in the DKO mice, compared to the apical membrane of wild-type mice.
Conclusions: Our study demonstrates that Cab39 is critical for SPAK phosphorylation 
and localization and NCC function. Deletion of Cab39/Cab39l along the DCT prevents SPAK activation and causes SPAK to be confined to cytosolic puncta. Mice lacking Cab39 have compromised NCC function, reminiscent of Gitelman syndrome.
Funding: NIDDK Support, Private Foundation SupportFR-OR28  Oral Abstract  Friday
Fluid, Electrolyte, and Acid-Base Disorders: Basic Research
Extracellular Calcium-Sensing Receptor (CaSR) and Vasopressin Type 2 
Receptor (V2R) Interaction: An Emerging Mechanism to Fine-Tune Water Permeability in Renal CellsMarianna
 Ranieri
,1 Yanhua  Wang,2 Ciro Leonardo  Pierri,1 Ines  Angelini,1 
Annarita  Di Mise,1 Jeff M. Sands,2 Grazia  Tamma,1 Giovanna  Valenti.1 
1Universita degli Studi di Bari Aldo Moro, Bari, Italy; 2Emory University, 
Atlanta, GA .
Background: We have previously shown that Extracellular Calcium-Sensing 
Receptor (CaSR) signaling counteracts Vasopressin type 2 Receptor (V2R) signaling in 
renal collecting duct cells. In collecting duct principal cells, the V2R is expressed in both the basolateral and apical membranes.
Methods: Biochemical, computational, and functional methods were used to provide 
evidence that CaSR and V2R interact as multimeric complex. AQP2-mediated osmotic water permeability measurements were performed to evaluate the functional CaSR/V2R interaction.
Results: In collecting duct MDC4 cells and mouse kidney, immunolocalization and 
confocal xz reconstruction confirmed that both the CaSR and V2R are co-expressed in the apical membrane with a significant degree of co-localization. Moreover, the CaSR co-immunoprecipitated with the V2R, and stimulation with vasopressin increased the amount of immunoprecipitated CaSR. Proximity ligation experiments confirmed CaSR/V2R interaction and their sensitivity to vasopressin stimulation. In silico comparative modeling analysis allowed us to predict a possible structure of the CaSR/V2R protein complex. Functional data obtained in isolated perfused rat inner medullary collecting duct indicated that luminal vasopressin acts as a negative feedback system to the basolateral action of vasopressin on osmotic water permeability (Pf), and luminal CaSR activation further inhibited the Pf providing a functional significance to the described receptor-receptor interaction.
Conclusions: This study opens new perspectives on the regulation of AQP2 
trafficking and function not considered when the two GPCRs are viewed individually .
Funding: Government Support - Non-U.S.
FR-OR29  Oral Abstract  Friday
Fluid, Electrolyte, and Acid-Base Disorders: Basic Research
Inhibition of Urate Transporters and Insulin-Activated Urate Transport 
by SGLT2 InhibitorsDavid
 B. Mount,1,2 Asim  Mandal.1 1Brigham and Women’ s Hospital 
Department of Medicine, Boston, MA; 2VA Boston Healthcare System, West 
Roxbury, MA.
Background: Sodium-glucose cotransporter 2 inhibitors (SGLT2i) have well-
established uricosuric and urate-lowering effects, with protective effects on gout. The 
mechanisms of these uricosuric effects are not clear, however, and direct effects on urate transporters have not been fully investigated. We report the effects of empagliflozin, canagliflozin, and dapagliflozin on urate transport in a human proximal tubular cell line and in Xenopus oocytes expressing individual urate transporters.
Methods: Western blotting, in vitro transcription of cRNA from cloned cDNA and 
urate transport assays in human renal proximal tubule epithelial cells (PTC-05) and Xenopus laevis  oocytes expressing individual human urate transporters.
Results: SGLT2 inhibitors significantly inhibited net urate uptake in a dose-
dependent manner in human PTC-05 cells, which express endogenous SGLT2 and the urate transporters GLUT9a, GLUT9b, OAT10, OAT1, NPT1, ABCG2 and ABCC4. In the Xenopus laevis oocyte expression system, these inhibitors inhibited the basal urate 
transport activities of URAT1, OAT10, OAT3 and ABCC4 but not GLUT9, OAT1, and ABCG2. OAT10 was only modestly sensitive to empagliflozin and canagliflozin (~38% and 28% inhibition with 500 µM empagliflozin and canagliflozin respectively). For 
URAT1, the IC50s for empagliflozin, canagliflozin, and dapagliflozin were 460, 230, and 487 µM, respectively; for OAT3 the IC50s were 42, 29, and 21 µM, respectively. 
In addition, SGLT2i inhibited insulin-induced stimulation of urate transport in PTC-05 cells, with dose-dependent inhibitory effects on insulin-induced phosphorylation of the downstream Akt and ERK kinases.
Conclusions: These results indicate that the uricosuric action of SGLT2 inhibitors 
is at least partially due to direct inhibition of the apical urate reabsorptive transporters URAT1 and OAT10. Additionally, SGLT2 inhibitors inhibited insulin-activated transport in a human proximal tubular cell line, with attenuated phosphorylation of Akt and ERK; given the key role for insulin-activated urate transport in the genesis of hyperuricemia this indicates another potential mechanism for SGLT2i-associated uricosuria.
Funding: Other NIH Support - NIAMS
FR-OR30  Oral Abstract  Friday
Fluid, Electrolyte, and Acid-Base Disorders: Basic Research
ENaC Inhibition with Trimethoprim Occurs Without Changing Urinary 
H+ ExcretionNiklas
 Ayasse
,1,2 Peder  Berg,2 Samuel  L. Svendsen,2 Amalie  Q. Rousing,2 
Mads  V . Sorensen,2 Natalya  U. Fedosova,2 Jens  G. Leipziger.2 
1Universitatsklinikum Mannheim, Mannheim, Germany; 2Aarhus Universitet, 
Aarhus, Denmark.
Background: There is growing consensus that collecting duct H+ secretion occurs 
independent of changes in the transepithelial voltage (Vte). We recently identified a 
new mechanism how benzamil stimulates acute urinary alkalization. In addition to its 



How Sweet It Is: Basics of Diabetic Kidney Disease
Key: TH - Thursday; FR - Friday; SA - Saturday; OR - Oral; PO - Poster; PUB - Publication Only
Underline represents presenting author.
37
J Am Soc Nephrol 34: 2023Oral Abstract/Friday
direct inhibition of the epithelial sodium channel (ENaC), benzamil acutely impairs H+ 
excretion by blocking the H+/K+ ATPase. The latter effect explains benzamil’s acute and 
marked effect on urine alkalization. However, the question remained whether inhibition 
of ENaC activity causes alterations in renal H+ excretion. To revisit this question, we 
studied the effect of a direct ENaC inhibitor which is structurally different from benzamil. Here, we chose the antibiotic molecule trimethoprim, well-known to cause K
+ retention 
by direct ENaC inhibition.
Methods: In vivo  experiments were performed in bladder-catheterized C57BL/6J 
mice, allowing real-time measurement of urinary pH, electrolyte, and acid excretion. Trimethoprim was administered as an intraperitoneal bolus injection (5 µg/g bw). Additionally, the effect of trimethoprim on H
+/K+-ATPase activity was assessed in 
vitro in pig gastric H+/K+ ATPase enriched membrane vesicles under different pH and 
extracellular K+ concentrations.
Results: We find that trimethoprim inhibits ENaC, acutely increasing natriuresis 
and decreasing kaliuresis, thus confirming earlier studies. However, trimethoprim had no effect on urinary pH or net acid excretion, contrasting the effects of benzamil that acutely alkalizes the urine and reduces net acid excretion. Moreover, in vitro experiments on isolated pig gastric H
+/K+-ATPase proteins showed near to no effect of trimethoprim on 
the pump’s activity, again contrasting the action of benzamil.
Conclusions: In comparison to benzamil, that inhibits both ENaC and the H+/
K+-ATPase proteins, the renal action of trimethoprim appears to be confined to ENaC 
inhibition. These findings further support the hypothesis that inhibition of ENaC does not cause inhibition of H
+ secretion in the collecting duct. Thus, these results add an additional 
argument refuting the hypothesis of voltage-dependent H+ secretion in collecting duct.
Funding: Government Support - Non-U.S.
FR-OR31  Oral Abstract  Friday
How Sweet It Is: Basics of Diabetic Kidney Disease
Decoding the Spatial Transcriptomic Landscape of Diabetic 
NephropathyQiwen
 
Deng, Yu
 
Liu, Nathan
 
Bracey, Vivek
 
Charu, Gerlinde
 W
ernig. 
Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford, CA.
Background: Diabetic nephropathy (DN) is a major cause of chronic kidney disease 
globally. However, the lack of targeted treatments for renal fibrosis in DN is due to an 
incomplete understanding of disease progression. We generated a detailed map of human diabetic nephropathy by employing single-cell gene expression and spatial transcriptomic profiling of DN patients and controls.
Methods: We characterized the signature of diabetic nephropathy through spatial 
transcriptomics, analyzing eight patient biopsies using the 10x VISIUM-FFPE platform. Integrating spatially resolved transcriptomics with single-cell gene expression, we mapped cell types in space, revealing the spatial organization and structure of DN tissue. Our analysis included trajectory analysis for cell transition directions, spatial dependencies between signaling pathways and cell types, and gene-regulatory networks distinguishing DN from normal kidney tissue. Furthermore, subcellular characterization of 100 genes of interest was performed using Molecular Cartography on frozen tissues from the same patients.
Results: Deconvoluting spatial transcriptomic spots into cell-type abundances 
unveiled the spatial organization of kidney tissue, identifying major cell-type niches as structural building blocks. Within the glomerulus niche, we inferred a pseudotime trajectory from endothelial cells to pathogenic fibroblasts (IGKC+), supported by significant upregulation of POSTN in DN endothelial cells. We linked spatial cell 
composition information to cellular functions, detecting increased TGFß signaling activity in areas abundant in mesangial cells and fibroblasts. In the fibrotic niche, we observed strong dependencies between mesenchymal cells and leukocytes, highlighting the key role of macrophages in fibroblast activation. Subclustering fibroblasts and mesangial cells identified pathogenic fibroblasts (Fib 6) marked by IGKC and pathogenic 
mesangial cells (MES 2 & 3) marked by TMSB4X, MYL9, and ACTA2. Additionally, we 
discovered a novel innate immune checkpoint, CD63, highly expressed in DN samples and specifically overexpressed in Fib 6 and MES 2 & 3, supporting its crucial role in DN fibrogenesis.
Conclusions: Our study provides an integrative molecular map of diabetic 
nephropathy, serving as a vital reference for the field and facilitating advanced mechanistic and therapeutic investigations of diabetic kidney disease.
FR-OR32  Oral Abstract  Friday
How Sweet It Is: Basics of Diabetic Kidney Disease
Spatially Localized Mesangial Cell Communication in Diabetic Kidney 
DiseaseRicardo
 
Melo Ferreira,1 Carrie  L. Phillips,1 Mahla  Asghari,1 Debora  L. Gisch,1 
Daria
 
Barwinska,1 Michael  J. Ferkowicz,1 Angela  R. Sabo,1 Blue  Lake,3 
Timothy
 
A.
 Sutton,1 Shunhua  Guo,1 Ying-Hua  Cheng,1 Charles  E. Alpers,2 
Sanjay
 
Jain,4 Tarek  M. El-Achkar,1 Pierre  C. Dagher,1 Katherine  J. Kelly,1 
Michael
 
T.
 Eadon.1 KPMP. 1Indiana University School of Medicine, 
Indianapolis, IN; 2University of Washington, Seattle, WA; 3San Diego Institute 
of Science, Altos Labs, San Diego, CA; 4Washington University in St Louis 
School of Medicine, St Louis, MO.
Background: Substantial knowledge has been gained regarding podocyte injury in 
diabetic kidney disease (DKD) but less is known about the mechanisms of mesangial 
expansion, nodule formation, and its relationship with neovascularization. Changes in communication between injured cells serve as both a marker of disease progression and a mediator, promoting injury responses through positive feedback in surrounding cells. In this study, we aim to spatially localize changes in intra-glomerular communication between mesangial, endothelial, and epithelial cells.
Methods: We subsetted the KPMP / HuBMAP snRNAseq atlas into reference 
(N=11) and diabetic (N=7) samples. Using the CellChat database, we modelled cell-cell communication in glomerular cell types. The snRNAseq atlas was used as reference to deconvolute 23 kidney spatial transcriptomics samples, including reference (N=6) and diabetic (N=10). The modelled cell-cell communication and associated pathway vectors were then localized onto glomeruli with COMMOT.
Results: The cellular communication decreases in diabetic glomeruli (442) when 
compared to reference (1092). The overall loss of receptor-ligand interaction is more pronounced in diabetic mesangial cells, from 309 to 55 (p value < 10
-9, Fisher’s Exact). 
Some of the communication absent in diabetic mesangial cells include the JAG1 - NOTCH interaction with glomerular capillaries and podocytes and the Gas6 – TAM, cell proliferation, angiogenesis and immune activation. Associated pathways were differentially represented in healthy control and DKD spatial transcriptomic samples.
Conclusions: These studies indicate a change in the intercellular communication 
in diabetic glomeruli. Identified pathways are potentially implicated in the process of neovascularization, mesangial expansion and glomerulosclerosis.
Funding: NIDDK Support, Other NIH Support - HuBMAP
FR-OR33  Oral Abstract  Friday
How Sweet It Is: Basics of Diabetic Kidney Disease
Interferon-γ (IFN-g) Signaling in Diabetic Kidney Disease (DKD) 
Associated with ESKDViji
 
Nair,1 Jennifer  L. Harder,1 Jamal  El Saghir,1 Felix  H. Eichinger,1 Shannon  M.  
Harlan,2 Hana  Baker,2 Frank  C. Brosius,3 Kevin  L. Duffin,2 Robert  G. Nelson,4 
Matthias
 
Kretzler,1 Wenjun  Ju.1 1University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI; 2Eli 
Lilly and Company, Indianapolis, IN; 3University of Arizona, Tucson, AZ; 
4National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases, Phoenix, AZ.
Background: The mechanisms by which circulating pro-inflammatory factors 
modulate kidney signaling and disease progression in DKD remain poorly defined.
Methods: SOMASCAN plasma proteomics (n=162) and RNA profiles (n=74) 
from kidney biopsies of Southwest Native Americans with type 2 diabetes were used 
to identify differentially expressed genes (DEGs) and proteins and upstream regulators (URs) associated with progression to ESKD. Based on quantitative transcriptomic analysis, activation scores for IFN-g signaling were computed and associated with structural lesions and outcomes in DKD patients. These findings were validated in cultured human kidney cell lines, kidney tissue from 2 DKD mouse models (DBA/2 podocyte-JAK2 transgenic and uninephrectomized BKS ReninAA V db/db mice) and human kidney organoid cultures.
Results: Plasma IFN-g was upregulated in ESKD patients and identified as the 
top predicted UR for ESKD-associated kidney DEGs. Higher IFN-g activation scores, in both glomeruli and tubulo-interstitium correlated (r=0.40 and 0.35, respectively, p<0.05) with faster GFR decline. Participants with higher scores were more likely to reach ESKD (p<0.05). IFN-g significantly increased activation scores in cultured human kidney podocytes and proximal tubular cells (p<0.0001). Inhibition of the IFN-g pathway by a JAK1/2 inhibitor baricitinib reduced the activation scores and ameliorated albuminuria and mesangial expansion in podocyte JAK2 transgenic DBA/2 mice. Similar phenotypic improvements were observed in ReninAA V db/db uNx mice after treatment with the JAK1/2 inhibitor, ruxolitinib. Single cell profiling of IFN-g-treated organoids demonstrated the presence of IFN-g receptors and downstream target gene CXCL10 in 
kidney cell types. Higher kidney organoid IFN-g scores following stimulation with IFNG were suppressed with baricitinib. Secreted CXCL10 protein strongly associated with the IFN-g activation score in organoids.
Conclusions: Circulating IFN-g levels were directly associated with alterations 
in kidney transcriptomic programs and the progression to ESKD in human DKD and multiple models. A clinically available drug (baricitinib) reversed IFN-g activation and albuminuria in murine models identifying IFN-g as a target for treatment in DKD.
Funding: NIDDK Support
FR-OR34  Oral Abstract  Friday
How Sweet It Is: Basics of Diabetic Kidney Disease
Metabolomic and Transcriptomic Reveal Signature of Citrate Homeostasis 
in Diabetic Kidney DiseaseSoumya
 
Maity ,1 Christine  P. Limonte,2 Erkka  A.  V alo,5 Guanshi  Zhang,1  
Hak Joo
 
Lee,1 Subramaniam  Pennathur,7 Janet  Snell-Bergeon,6 Tina  Costacou,8 
Peter
 
Rossing,4 Per-Henrik  Groop,9 Sourav  Roy,3 Kumar  Sharma.1 KPMP 
Consortium. 1The University of Texas Health Science Center at San Antonio, 
San Antonio, TX; 2University of Washington, Seattle, WA; 3The University of 
Texas at El Paso, El Paso, TX; 4Steno Diabetes Center Copenhagen, Herlev, 
Denmark; 5Folkhalsanin tutkimuskeskus, Helsinki, Finland; 6University of 
Colorado Anschutz Medical Campus, Aurora, CO; 7University of Michigan, Ann 
Arbor, MI; 8University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, P A; 9Helsingin yliopisto, 
Helsinki, Finland.
Background: Kidneys are highly metabolic organs, and the TCA cycle primarily 
fulfills the enormous energy required to maintain their normal function. In our previous 
cross-sectional study, low urinary citrate was associated with chronic kidney disease progression in Type 2 Diabetic patients. In this study, we performed a longitudinal targeted urinary metabolomic screening in 4 cohorts of Type 1 Diabetic (T1D) patients and single-cell RNAseq analysis of separate kidney biopsies to explore potential metabolic reprogramming in diabetic kidney disease (DKD).



How Sweet It Is: Basics of Diabetic Kidney Disease
Key: TH - Thursday; FR - Friday; SA - Saturday; OR - Oral; PO - Poster; PUB - Publication Only
Underline represents presenting author.
38
J Am Soc Nephrol 34: 2023Oral Abstract/Friday
Methods: Metabolomic markers for DKD progression were investigated in a case-
control study of four geographically and ethnically distinct cohorts (EDC, CACTI, 
STENO, and FinDiane) of type 1 diabetic patients. Cases were identified among patients with yearly eGFR decline ≥ 3 ml/min/1.73m2, while controls had yearly eGFR 
decline <1 ml/min/1.73m2. 42 urinary metabolites were measured using ZipChip mass spectrometry over 1750 participants. Comparative transcriptomics analysis was conducted in 11 kidney resident cells using Kidney Precision Medicine Project (KPMP) single-cell RNAseq data sets. Spatial metabolomic analysis in kidney biopsies was performed using MALDI-MSI.
Results: Glycolic acid and three TCA cycle metabolites, citrate, succinate, and 
fumarate, were significantly decreased in the cases compared to the control. Among them, citrate and glycolic acid were significantly associated with rapid eGFR decline and albuminuria. Single-cell RNAseq analysis demonstrates increased fatty acid uptake, impaired β-oxidation, improved glycolysis, partially maintained TCA cycle, 
and mitochondrial citrate accumulation in proximal tubules of DKD patients. Spatial metabolomic analysis reveals citrate accumulation in kidney biopsies of T1D patients compared to healthy control. Proximal tubule-specific upregulation of ACLY indicates the entry of accumulated citrate in de novo lipogenesis. The downregulation of both apical and basolateral membrane citrate transporters SLC13A2 and SLC13A3 implies dysregulation of tubular citrate flux in DKD.
Conclusions: Low urinary citrate could be a potential marker for CKD progression 
in T1D patients, and intracellular citrate homeostasis could be associated with DKD progression.
Funding: NIDDK Support, Veterans Affairs Support
FR-OR35  Oral Abstract  Friday
How Sweet It Is: Basics of Diabetic Kidney Disease
Whole Blood DNA Methylation Signature, Circulating Proteins, and 
Risk of Progression to ESKD in Type 1 Diabetes (T1D)Zhuo
 
Chen,1 Eiichiro  Satake,2,3 Marcus  G. Pezzolesi,4 Zaipul  Md Dom,2,3 
Devorah
 
O.
 
Stucki,4 Xiwei  Wu,5,6 Andrzej  S. Krolewski,2,3 Rama  Natarajan.1 
1City of HopeDepartment of Diabetes Complications and Metabolism, Arthur 
Riggs Diabetes & Metabolism Research Institute and Beckman Research Institute, Duarte, CA; 
2Section on Genetics and Epidemiology, Research 
Division, Joslin Diabetes Center, Boston, MA; 3Department of Medicine, 
Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA; 4Department of Internal Medicine, 
Division of Nephrology and Hypertension, University of Utah School of Medicine, Salt Lake City, UT; 
5Department of Computational and 
Quantitative Medicine, Beckman Research Institute of City of Hope, Duarte, CA; 
6Integrative Genomics Core, Beckman Research Institute of City of 
Hope, Duarte, CA.
Background: Diabetic Kidney Disease (DKD) can progress to end stage kidney 
disease (ESKD) which increases morbidity and mortality. Since commonly utilized 
clinical variables do not adequately predict ESKD onset, there is an unmet need to update the current ESKD risk prediction model with more sensitive biomarkers. We examined whether DNA methylation (DNAme) can fulfil this need.
Methods: Using human EPIC DNAme arrays, we profiled DNAme in whole blood 
DNAs of 277 well characterized T1D participants with DKD (median eGFR 52.2mL/min/1.73m
2 and ACR 728.9mg/g) from the Joslin Kidney Study; 51% of our cohort 
developed ESKD during follow-up (7-20 years). We then performed epigenome-wide analysis followed by integration with genetics and circulating proteins data (Olink) from the same cohort, and developed statistical models including DNAme for ESKD-risk prediction.
Results: We identified DNAme at 17 CpGs associated with ESKD risk (ESKD-
associated CpGs) independent of major demographic/clinical risk factors. These CpGs were located in/near genes related to pathogenesis of DKD and/or ESKD, including inflammation. Notably, 7 of these ESKD-associated CpGs had methylation quantitative trait loci SNPs. Some of these SNPs could affect binding sites for key transcription factors with functions related to DKD, suggesting novel links between genetic variants and ESKD via DNAme. Moreover, the impact of 5 of these CpGs on ESKD-risk were partially mediated by several circulating proteins previously reported to be associated with ESKD e.g. TNF-R27 and KIM1, suggesting downstream functions of these CpGs on target cells/tissues related to inflammation and renal injury. Notably, using our ESKD-associated CpGs, we developed two updated ESKD prediction models by adding DNAme at selected CpGs, or a DNAme score (imputed using selected CpGs) to the Clinical Model (using only clinical predictors). Both updated models markedly improved ESKD prediction (by 20%) compared to the Clinical Model alone.
Conclusions: Our results identified novel putative epigenetic DNAme prognostic 
biomarkers to significantly improve ESKD risk prediction in T1D, and uncovered molecular mechanisms of DNAme involvement in ESKD, both important for early detection and prevention.
Funding: NIDDK Support, Private Foundation SupportFR-OR36  Oral Abstract  Friday
How Sweet It Is: Basics of Diabetic Kidney Disease
Single-Cell Resolution Drug Effects on RAAS Blockade in ZSF1 Rat 
Diabetic Kidney DiseaseMichael S. Balzer,
1,2 Jianfu  Zhou,1 Amin  Abedini,1 Ziyuan  Ma,1 
Manuel
 
Grundmann,3 Mira  Pavkovic,3 Katalin  Susztak.1 1University of 
Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, P A; 2Charite Universitatsmedizin Berlin,  
Berlin, Germany; 3Bayer AG, Leverkusen, Germany.
Background: Diabetic kidney disease (DKD) is the leading cause of renal failure 
worldwide. Overactivation of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) is 
associated with detrimental outcomes in DKD patients. RAAS inhibitors such as enalapril have been used for decades as antiproteinuric, antihypertensive, and kidney protective agents. Still, the exact cell type of action and the main drivers of drug action remain elusive.
Methods: To this end, in addition to detailed biochemical, histological, and tissue 
proteomics analysis of the ZSF1 obese rat with or without enalapril treatment, we leveraged single-cell transcriptomics (scRNA-seq). We exploited state-of-the-art analyses of unbiased tensor decomposition, differential gene expression, pathway enrichment, cell trajectories, RNA velocity, weighted gene correlation networks, integration with CITE-seq imputed antibody-derived tags, and cell-cell communication. Results from the ZSF1 model were validated in human kidney samples and datasets.
Results: RAAS inhibition via enalapril ameliorated hypertension, proteinuria, kidney 
tissue levels of progression markers, and fibrosis in the ZSF1 rat model of DKD. ScRNA-seq highlighted immune cell enrichment, endothelial and tubular cell depletion. Unbiased tensor decomposition analysis showed distal nephron tubule cells were associated with treatment status. Enalapril downregulated cathepsin D (Ctsd) in diabetic distal nephron and myeloid cells. Ctsd+ injured tubule cells of the distal nephron were enriched in DKD and depleted upon enalapril treatment. Ctsd was also a marker for Trem2+ residential 
macrophages, which demonstrated an inflammatory phenotype and interacted strongly with distal nephron tubule cells. CTSD was particularly enriched in kidneys from DKD 
patients and correlated with outcome-relevant parameters such as fibrosis and glomerular filtration rate.
Conclusions: We report previously unknown injury cell states of the distal nephron, 
describe CTSD as an important regulator of enalapril effects, and reveal Trem2+ 
residential macrophages as top receivers of distal nephron cell-cell communication. Finally, we show that our findings translate to humans and demonstrate that enalapril-associated gene signatures allow stratification of human kidney samples by disease-relevant outcome measures such as kidney function and fibrosis.
Funding: Commercial Support - Bayer, Government Support - Non-U.S.
FR-OR37  Oral Abstract  Friday
How Sweet It Is: Basics of Diabetic Kidney Disease
Long Noncoding RNA (lncRNA) PVT1 Induces Mitochondrial Damage 
and Inflammation via TRIM56 in Diabetic Kidney DiseaseZhimei
 
Lv, Ziyang
 W
ang, Rong
 
Wang. Shandong Provincial Hospital,  
Jinan, China .
Background: Diabetic kidney disease (DKD), one of the chronic microvascular 
complications of diabetes mellitus (DM), is the leading inducement of end stage 
renal disease (ESRD) globally, and increasing number of studies have demonstrated that immunity and inflammation are key pathogenic mechanisms in DKD. Notably, hyperglycemia-induced mitochondrial dysfunction played a pivotal role in activating innate immunity. However, the concrete mechanisms responsible for mitochondrial damage and inflammation of podocytes during DKD remain poorly understood.
Methods: The role of PVT1 was investigated by resorting to cultured podocytes, 
podocyte-specific deletion of Pvt1 (Nphs2-Cre/Pvt1
flox/flox) mice and human samples. RT-
qPCR, western blotting, RNA-FISH, TEM, histology staining, immunofluorescence, RIP, MeRIP, RNA pull-down, luciferase reporter assays, and Seahorse XF Cell Mito Stress Test were utilized for mechanistic study of the interaction between PVT1, TRIM56 and 
AMPKα further.
Results: We observed a significant upregulation of long non-coding RNA (lncRNA) 
PVT1 in plasma of patients with DKD. And we generated mice with podocyte-specific deletion of Pvt1 (Nphs2-Cre/Pvt1
flox/flox) and confirmed that PVT1 deletion ameliorated 
diabetes-induced podocyte injury, glomerular pathology and proteinuria. We further demonstrated a novel role of PVT1 in regulating podocyte mitochondrial dysfunction and inflammation through TRIM56-mediated cGAS-STING signaling pathway. Similar results were validated in podocyte-specific deletion of Trim56 (Nphs2-Cre/Trim56
flox/flox) in DKD 
mice models. Mechanistically, PVT1 was upregulated due to m6A demethylation under hyperglycemia conditions, and the stabilized PVT1 involved in mitochondrial dysfunction 
by interacting with TRIM56 post-transcriptionally to manipulate the ubiquitination of AMPKα, which subsequently induced mitochondrial injury. Meanwhile, the cytosolic 
mtDNA, released from damaged mitochondria, was recognized by the cGAS-STING pathway, linking mitochondrial homeostasis disruption to inflammatory responses in podocytes. Moreover, TRIM56 could catalyze STING in a ubiquitous manner to mediate inflammation directly in podocytes under high glucose environment.
Conclusions: Our study proposes the important role of PVT1 and TRIM56 in 
mitochondrial damage and inflammation, providing a potential therapeutic target against DKD.
Funding: Government Support - Non-U.S.



